The Project Gutenberg eBook, Those Brewster Children, by Florence Morse
Kingsley, Illustrated by Emily Hall Chamberlain


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: Those Brewster Children


Author: Florence Morse Kingsley



Release Date: June 11, 2016  [eBook #52302]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-646-US (US-ASCII)


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THOSE BREWSTER CHILDREN***


E-text prepared by David Edwards, Martin Pettit, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net) from page images
generously made available by Internet Archive (https://archive.org)



Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 52302-h.htm or 52302-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/52302/52302-h/52302-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/52302/52302-h.zip)


      Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive. See
      https://archive.org/details/thosebrewsterchi00kingiala





THOSE BREWSTER CHILDREN


[Illustration: The occasion was not wholly barren of material for a
trained psychologist (page 56)]


THOSE BREWSTER CHILDREN

by

FLORENCE MORSE KINGSLEY

Author of "The Singular Miss
Smith," "And So They Were
Married," etc.

With Illustrations by Emily Hall Chamberlain







New York
Dodd, Mead & Company
1910

Copyright, 1908
By Phelps Publishing Company

Copyright, 1910
By Dodd, Mead and Company

Published, March, 1910




ILLUSTRATIONS


The occasion was not wholly barren of material
 for a trained psychologist (page 56)           _Frontispiece_

"Cwyin'?" he observed in a bird-like voice   _Facing page_ 146

"She'll remember it, you'll find, better
 than one of Mrs. Stanford's whippings"         "      "   182




I


Elizabeth Brewster sat by the window of her sewing-room in the fading
light of the winter afternoon. She had been straining her eyes a little
over her work and the intent look did not leave them as she glanced out
into the gathering dusk. She could see all three of the children at
their play on the lawn. Carroll, tall and sturdy for his eight years;
Doris slim and active, her reddish blond hair streaming out from under
her hood and blowing about her eager little face, and three-year-old
Baby Richard, toiling manfully to keep up with the others as they piled
damp snow-balls into the rude semblance of a human figure.

"Darlings!" murmured the mother to herself, a happy light seemingly
reflected from the red winter sunset shining on her face. She raised the
sash a hand's breadth and called to them, "Come in now, children; it is
growing too cold for Richard to stay out any longer."

She glanced regretfully at her unfinished sewing as she rose, gathering
up thread, scissors and thimble with the absent-minded carefulness born
of long habit. Something was scorching on the kitchen range, she feared,
a well-founded distrust of the heavy-handed Norwegian maid hastening her
steps down the precipitous back stairway.

The range was heated to redness, and several saucepans huddled together
over the hottest place were bubbling furiously. Celia, the maid, was
setting the table in the dining-room, with slow, meditative motions like
those of an ox. She did not appear at all disturbed at sight of her
mistress hurriedly dashing water into one of the utensils, from which
arose an evil-smelling steam.

"Oh, Celia! how many times must I tell you to cook the vegetables in
plenty of water?" demanded Mrs. Brewster, in despairing tones. "And
look! your fire is almost up to the griddles. Have you shaken it down
this afternoon?"

The girl shook her big head with its untidy braids of straw-coloured
hair. "Naw!" she observed explosively, after a pause filled with the
noise of descending ashes.

"You should say 'no, Mrs. Brewster,' or 'no, ma'am,'" her mistress
said, with an obvious effort after self-control. "Try not to forget
again, Celia. Now you may go up to your room and make yourself tidy
before you finish dinner."

The girl obeyed with the heavy, lurching steps of one crossing a
ploughed field. Elizabeth, hurriedly opening doors and windows to the
frosty sunset caught sight of her three children still busy about their
snow image.

"Carroll, dear!" she called, "didn't you hear mother when she told you
to come in?"

The boy turned his handsome head. "Yes, mother; I did hear you," he
said, earnestly, "an' I told Doris to go straight into the house an'
bring Richard; but she wouldn't go. I had to finish this first, you see,
'cause I've planned----"

"Come in now," interrupted his mother, forestalling the detailed
explanation sure to follow. "Come in at once!"

The boy dropped the snow-shovel with which he was carefully shaping the
base of his image. "Don't you hear mother, Doris?" he demanded in a
clear, authoritative voice. "You must go right in this minute an' take
Buddy."

The little girl thrust out the tip of a saucy pink tongue at her
brother.

"Mother said you too, Carroll Brewster; you don't have to tell me an'
Buddy. Does he, mother?"

"Carroll! Doris!"

There was no mistaking the tone of the mother's voice. The baby,
suddenly conscious of cold fingers and tingling toes, ran toward her
with a whining cry, his short arms outstretched. The others followed
slowly, exchanging mutinous glances.

"Carroll is always trying to make me an' Buddy mind him; but we won't,"
observed Doris, emphatically kicking her overshoes across the floor.

"All three of you should obey mother every time," chanted Elizabeth in
the weary tone of an oft-repeated admonition. She sighed as she added,
"It is very naughty to argue and dispute."

"But you see, mother, I'm the oldest," began Carroll argumentatively,
"an' I generally know what the children ought to do just as well as
anybody."

He hung up his hat and coat and set his overshoes primly side by side
with a rebuking glance at his small sister, who tossed her mane of hair
at him disdainfully.

"I see you've forgotten what mother said about overshoes, Doris," he
whispered with an air of superior merit which appeared to exasperate the
little girl beyond endurance. She leaned forward suddenly and a piercing
squeal from the boy announced the fact that virtue frequently reaps an
unexpected reward.

"Doris pinched my ear hard, mother," he explained, winking fast to keep
back the unmanly tears. "I didn't even touch her."

Elizabeth looked up from kissing and cuddling her baby. "Oh, Doris dear;
how could you! Don't you love your little brother?"

The little girl flattened herself against the newel-post, her brown eyes
full of warm, dancing lights. "Sometimes I do, mother," she said, with
an air of engaging candour; "an' sometimes I feel jus'--like biting
him!"

Elizabeth surveyed her daughter with large eyes of pained astonishment.

"You make mother very sorry when you say such naughty things, Doris,"
she said, severely. "Hang up your coat and hood; then you must go
up-stairs to your room and stay till I call you."

In the half hour that followed Elizabeth gave her youngest his supper of
bread and milk and hurried him off to bed, endeavouring in the meanwhile
to keep a watchful eye upon the operations of the heavy-handed Celia,
now irreproachable in a freshly starched cap and apron, and an attentive
ear for Carroll practicing scales and exercises in the parlour. Later
there was a salad to make, which involved the skilful compounding of a
French dressing, and last of all a hurried freshening of her own toilet
before the quick opening of the front door announced the advent of the
head of the house.

Elizabeth was fastening her collar with fingers which trembled a little
with the strain of her multiplied activities, when she heard her
husband's voice upraised in joyous greetings to the children. "Hello
there, Carroll, old man! And daddy's little girl, too!"

She had entirely forgotten Doris, and that young person had quite
evidently escaped from durance vile into the safe shelter of her
father's arms. After all, it was a small matter, Elizabeth assured
herself; and Sam disliked tears and unpleasantness during the hours, few
and short, he could spend with the children. Promising herself that she
would talk seriously with the small offender at bed-time she ran down
stairs to receive her own greeting, none the less prized and longed for
after ten years of married life.

Her husband's eyes met her own with a smile. "Betty--dear!" he
whispered, passing his arm about her shoulders. Doris from the other
side peered around at her mother, her bright eyes full of laughing
triumph.

"If I'm not very much mistaken," her father said mysteriously, "there's
something in my coat pocket for good children."

Doris instantly joined her brother in a race for the highly desirable
pocket, and the two were presently engaged in an amicable division of
the spoils.

"You mustn't eat any candy till after dinner, children," warned
Elizabeth.

Doris had already set her sharp white teeth in a bonbon, when her
father's hand interposed. "Hold hard, there, youngsters," he said; "you
heard the order of the court; no candy till after dinner."

"Just this one, daddy," pouted Doris. "I think I might." She swallowed
it quickly and reached for another.

"Not till after dinner, young lady," and the pasteboard box was lifted
high out of reach of small exploring fingers.

"Oh, Sam, why will you persist in bringing home candy?" Elizabeth asked,
with a sort of tired indulgence in her voice. "You know they oughtn't to
have it."

"I forgot, Betty. Please, ma'am, will you 'xcuse me, just this once--if
I'll never do it again?"

His upraised hands and appealing eyes were irresistibly funny. Elizabeth
laughed helplessly, and the children rolled on the floor in an ecstasy
of mirth.

When presently all trooped out to dinner neither parent observed Doris
as she nibbled a second bonbon.

"Oh-o-o! You naughty girl!" whispered Carroll enviously. "Where did you
get that?"

"Out of the box," replied the small maiden, with a toss of her yellow
head. "Um-m, it's good; don't you wish you had some?"

"Mother said----"

"Don't talk so loud; I'll give you half!"

"It's most all gone now. I'll tell mother, if you don't give me all the
rest." And the boy reached masterfully for the coveted morsel.

"You're such a rude child you oughtn't to have any," observed Doris,
nonchalantly bestowing the debatable dainty in her own mouth. "If you
tell, I'll call you 'tattle-tale'!" she said thickly; "then the' won't
either of us get any."

Carroll scowled fiercely at this undeniable statement. His father did
not encourage unmanly reprisals.

"You're an awful selfish child, Doris," he said reproachfully, "an'
that's worse 'an being rude; mother said so. It's worser 'an anything to
be selfish. _I_ wouldn't do it; guess I wouldn't!"

"I am not selfish!"

"You are, too!"

"_Chil--dren!_"

Their mother's vaguely admonitory voice caused the belligerents to slip
meekly enough into their respective seats. They were hungry, and the
soup smelled good. But their eyes and explorative toes continued the
skirmish in a spirited manner.

"I had a letter from Evelyn Tripp to-day," Elizabeth was saying, as she
fastened the children's long linen bibs. "----Sit up straight in your
chair, Doris, and stop wriggling."

Sam Brewster cast an admonitory eye upon his son. "Evelyn Tripp!" he
echoed, "I haven't heard you mention the lady in a long time."

"You know they left Boston last year and I hardly ever see her
now-a-days. Poor Evelyn!"

"It is too bad," he said with mock solicitude. "Now, if you hardly ever
saw me it would be 'poor Sam,' I suppose."

"The Tripps lost most of their money," she went on, ignoring his
frivolous comment; "then they moved to Dorchester."

He helped himself to more soup with a reminiscent smile. "Worse luck for
Dorchester," he murmured.

"Why, Sam," she said reprovingly. "Of course Evelyn was--Evelyn; but
she was as kind as could be just after we were married, and before, too.
Don't you remember?"

"Oh, yes; I remember perfectly. We were pawns on the chess-board in Miss
Tripp's skilful hands for awhile," he agreed drily. "She's a Napoleon,
a--er--Captain of Industry, a----"

"Please don't, Sam," interrupted Elizabeth. "Poor Evelyn has been very
unfortunate, and I'm sorry for her. She--wants to come and make us a
visit, and I----"

An appalling thump and a smothered squeal marked the spot where, at this
crucial point in the conversation, Doris suddenly disappeared from view.
Her father stooped to peer under the cloth.

"Will you kindly tell me what you were trying to do, Doris?" he
demanded, as he fished his daughter out from under the table in a more
or less dishevelled condition.

"It was Carroll's fault, daddy," replied the child. "He kicked me under
the table, an' course I was 'bliged to kick him back; an' I did it!"

Her air of sparkling triumph provoked a smile from her father; but
Elizabeth looked grave.

"I really think," she said, "that Doris ought to go upstairs without
dessert. You know, Doris, you disobeyed mother when you came down
without leave."

The little girl's eyes flashed angry fire. "Carroll kicked me first,"
she pouted, "an' I couldn't reach him; he wasn't fair 'cause he got 'way
back in his chair on purpose; you know you did, Carroll Brewster!"

Elizabeth turned judicially to her son.

"No, mother," explained the boy, "I didn't really kick Doris; I just put
out my toe and poked her,--just a small, soft poke; you know it didn't
hurt, Doris; but I did squeeze back in my chair so you couldn't reach
me." His candid blue eyes, so like his father's, looked full into hers.

"Well, in view of the evidence, I propose that you suspend sentence,
Betty, and let them both off," put in the head of the house. "You'll be
a good girl and keep your toes under your chair, won't you, Dorry?"

"Yes, daddy, I will," promised the little girl, gazing up at her father
from under her curved lashes with the dimpled sweetness of a youthful
seraph. "I do love you so, daddy," she cooed gently. "I feel just like
kissing you!"

Her father caught the child in his arms and pressed half a dozen kisses
on her rosy cheeks before depositing her in her chair. "Remember,
girlie, you must be as quiet as a mouse or your mother will whisk you
off to bed before you can say Jack Robinson." He cast a laughing glance
across the table at his wife. "You see we all stand in proper awe of
you, my dear!"

"Oh, Sam!" murmured Elizabeth reprovingly; but she laughed with the
children.




II


When the militant young Brewsters were at last safely bestowed in bed,
Elizabeth sank into her low chair with an involuntary sigh of relief--or
fatigue, she hardly knew which.

"Tired, dear?" asked her husband, glancing up from his paper. "I suppose
you've put in a pretty hard day breaking in the foreigner. But you're
doing wonders. The dinner wasn't half bad, and the mechanic didn't break
a single dish in the process; at least I didn't hear the usual crash
from the rear."

She smiled back at him remotely. She did not think it worth while to
report the scorched potatoes, or the broken platter belonging to her
best set of dishes.

"I was thinking about Doris," she said.

Her husband's eyes lighted with a reminiscent smile. "Little monkey!" he
exclaimed. "She slid down the banisters like a streak of lightning and
flew into my arms before I had time to take off my overcoat. She said
she was sitting on the stairs, waiting for me to come. Not many
children think enough about seeing their old daddy to sit on the stairs
in the dark!"

"I'm really sorry to undeceive you, Sam; but I had sent that child up to
her room, and told her to stay there till I called her!" Elizabeth
informed him crisply.

"Wherefore the incarceration, O lady mother?"

"She was very naughty, Sam; she pinched Carroll, and when I reproved her
for doing it, she said she felt like biting him. Think of that! Of
course I had to do something."

"What had Carroll done to provoke the cannibalistic desire on the part
of the young woman?" he wanted to know, with judicial calm.

"Nothing at all, except to remind Doris to hang up her coat and put her
overshoes away, as I've told them both to do repeatedly."

His mouth twitched with an amused smile. "And Dorry punished him
promptly for his display of superior virtue--eh? Well, it may be very
much out of order for a mere father to say so, but I'll venture to
express the opinion that it won't hurt Master Carroll to get an
occasional snubbing from somebody. He's a good deal of a prig, Betty,
and it's got to come out of him some way or other between now and his
Sophomore year in college. Better not interfere too often, my dear. Let
'em work it out; it won't hurt either of 'em."

His wife surveyed him with wide, sad eyes. "Oh, Sam!" she murmured, "how
can you talk like that? Carroll tries to be a good boy and help me all
he can. But Doris----"

"Don't you worry about the little girl," advised her husband, laying a
soothing hand on hers. "She's all right."

"She ought not to quarrel with the other children; or disobey me. You
know that, Sam."

"Of course not. You'll have to make her toe the mark, Betty."

"But how, Sam? I've tried. I'm positively worn out trying."

The man pursed up his lips in an inaudible whistle. "Upon my word,
Betty," he broke out at length, "I don't know as I can tell you. We
don't stand for whipping, you know. Beating small children always struck
me as being a relic of the dark ages; and I know I could never stand it
to see a child of mine cower before me out of physical fear. But we
mustn't spoil 'em!"

"Marian Stanford whips Robbie every time he disobeys," Elizabeth said
after a lengthening pause. "She uses a butter-paddle--the kind I make
those little round balls with; you know it has a corrugated surface. She
says it is just the thing; it hurts so nicely. But I'm sure Robbie
Stanford is far naughtier than Carroll ever thinks of being."

Her husband broke into a helpless laugh which he promptly repressed at
sight of her indignant face.

"You oughtn't to laugh, Sam," she told him, in a tone of dignified
reproof. "You may not think it very important--all this about the
children; but it is. It is the most important thing in the world. Even
Marian Stanford says----"

"Why do you discuss the subject with her?" interrupted Sam. "You'll
never agree; and whatever we do with our own children, we mustn't force
our views on other people."

She surveyed him with a mutinous expression about her pretty lips.
"Marian doesn't hesitate to criticise my methods," she said. "The last
time I saw her she informed me that she had whipped her baby--only
think, Sam, her _baby_!"

"Did she use the butter-paddle on the unfortunate infant?" he wanted to
know, with a quizzical lift of his eyebrows; "or was it a spanking _au
naturel_?"

Elizabeth repressed his levity with a frown. "I wonder at you, Sam, for
thinking there's anything funny about it," she said rebukingly. "I
didn't feel at all like laughing when she said--with such a superior
air--'Livingstone's been getting altogether too much for me lately, and
this morning I took the paddle to him and whipped him soundly. He was
the most surprised child you ever saw!' Of course I didn't _say_
anything. What could I have said? But I must have looked what I felt,
for she burst out laughing. 'Dear, dear!' she said, 'how indignant you
do look; but I intend to have _my_ children mind me.' Then she glanced
at Richard peacefully pulling the spools out of my basket as if she
pitied him for having such a fond, weak mother as to allow it."

Sam Brewster rumpled his hair with a smothered yawn. "Marian is
certainly a strenuous lady," he murmured. "But let me advise you, Betty,
not to discuss family discipline with her, if you wish to preserve
peaceful relations between the families. The illegitimate use of the
Stanford butter-paddle is nothing to us, you know.--Er--you were telling
me about the letter you had from the fair Evelyn," he went on
pacifically, "and did my ears deceive me? or did you intimate that our
dear friend Miss Tripp was coming to spend the day with us soon?"

"To spend the day!" echoed Elizabeth. "She's coming to stay two weeks. I
had to ask her, Sam," she added, quickly forestalling his dismayed
protest; "she is obliged to be in town interviewing lawyers and people,
and I did want to do something to help her. Sam, she thinks she may be
obliged to teach, or do something; but she isn't up on anything, and I
don't believe she could possibly get any sort of a position."

"Betty, you're a good little woman," he said, beaming humorously upon
her; "and I never felt more convinced of the fact than I do this
minute. I'm game, though; I'll do everything I can to help in my small,
weak way."

Elizabeth gazed at her husband with wide, meditative eyes. "I do wish,"
she said devoutly, "that Evelyn could meet some nice, suitable man.
She's really very attractive--you know she is, Sam--and it would solve
all her problems so beautifully."

"How would Hickey do?" he inquired lazily. "George is forty, if not fat
and fair; and he's a thoroughly good fellow."




III


Elizabeth Brewster had been awake in the night, as was her custom,
making her noiseless rounds of the children's beds by the dim light of a
candle. A cold wind had sprung up, with driving snow and sleet, and she
feared its incursion into her nursery. Daylight found her in the kitchen
superintending the slow movements of Celia, who upset the coffee-pot,
dropped a soft-boiled egg on the hearth and stumbled over her untied
shoe-strings in her untutored efforts to assist.

Close upon the hurried departure of her husband to his office in a
distant part of the city, came the sound of small feet and voices from
above. With Sam's kiss still warm on her lips she ran lightly upstairs.
Carroll, partly dressed, stood before the mirror brushing his hair, in
funny imitation of his father's careful manner of accomplishing that
necessary process; while Doris scampered wildly about in her night-gown,
her small bare feet pink with cold.

"I wanted to see my daddy," she pouted, as her mother remonstrated. "I
wanted to tell him somesing."

"You can tell him to-night, girlie.--Yes, baby; in just a minute!"
Elizabeth's fingers were flying as she pulled on the little girl's warm
stockings and buttoned her shoes. "Now then, kittykins, slip into your
warm dressing-gown and see how nicely you can brush your teeth, while
mother--What is it, Carroll? Oh, a button off? Well, I'll sew it on.
Give Buddy his picture-book.--Yes, pet; mother knows you're hungry; you
shall have breakfast in just a minute. See the pretty pictures.--That's
right, Carroll, my work-basket. Now stand still while I--Oh, Doris dear!
Did you drop the glass?"

"It was all slippy, mother, an' I couldn't hold it. It's on the floor,
mother, all in teeny, weeny pieces!"

"Don't step on them! Wait, I'll sweep up the pieces.--Yes, baby, mother
hears you! See the pretty picture of the little pigs! Those nice little
pigs aren't crying!--Wait, Carroll, till mother fastens the thread.
There, that's done! Now put the basket--What is it, Doris? Oh, poor
little girl; you've cut your finger. Don't cry! But you see you should
have minded mother and not touched the broken glass. Now we'll tie it up
in this nice soft cloth, and----

"Yes, Celia; what is it? Oh, the butcher? Well, let me think--We had
beefsteak last night. Tell him to bring chops--nice ones; not like the
last.--Oh, I must run down and speak to that boy; he's so careless with
the orders! Tell him to wait a minute, Celia.--Carroll, won't you show
baby his pictures and keep him quiet till I--No, Doris; you mustn't
touch that bottle; that is father's bay-rum. Put it down, quick!"

The meddlesome little fingers let go the bottle with a jerk. It fell to
the floor, its fragrant contents pouring over the carpet. "Oh, you
naughty child! What will mother do with you? All of daddy's nice--Yes,
Celia; I hear you. I am coming directly. I must wipe up this--He says he
can't wait? Well, tell him to bring two pounds of nice lamb chops--rib
chops. If they are like the last ones he brought tell him I shall send
them right back.

"Now, Doris, I want you to look at mother. Why did you climb up in that
chair and pull the cork out of the bottle, when I've told you never to
meddle with the things on the chiffoniere?"

"I should think that child would know better after a while," put in
Carroll, with the solemn air of an octogenarian grandfather. "You ought
to have remembered the salad oil last week, Doris, and the ink the week
before!"

"Don't interrupt, Carroll; I'm talking to Doris just now. Look at
mother; don't hang your head."

"I wanted to--smell of it," muttered the child, digging her round chin
into her neck, while she eyed her mother from under puckered brows.
"Daddy said I might; lots of times he lets me smell it."

"Yes, when he holds the bottle; but now, you see, poor daddy won't have
any nice bay-rum the next time he wants to shave. He'll say 'who spilled
my bay-rum?'"

"It smells good!" observed Doris, filling the judicial pause with a
rapturous giggle.

"But it will all evaporate before night," said Elizabeth, taking up her
youngest, who had thrown The Adventures of Seven Little Pigs on the
floor and was protesting loudly at the delay.

"How do you spell evaporate, mother?" asked Carroll. "That's a funny
word--e-vap-o-rate. What does it mean, mother?"

"It means to go away into the air--to disappear," Elizabeth told him.
"See the big spot on the floor, and smell how fragrant the air is. Now
we'll go down to breakfast and I will open the windows; when I come back
after a while the bay-rum will be gone; it will be evaporated. Do you
understand? Doris can't pick it up and put it back into the bottle, no
matter how sorry she may feel to think she has been so careless."

Two widely opened pairs of serious eyes travelled from the lessening
spot on the floor to her face.

"I think it would be nice to spill a bottle of 'fumery every day an'
smell it 'vaporate," gurgled Doris, showing her dimples.

Elizabeth lifted the mischievous face toward hers with an admonitory
finger-tip. "I'll tell you, Doris, what you must do to make it right
with father," she said slowly and impressively. "You must take all the
money out of your bank and buy a new bottle of bay-rum."

She felt that for once, at least, she had made the punishment fit the
crime to a nicety.

"Not all my money, mother?"

"It will take every cent of it, I am afraid."

The small culprit clapped her hands and executed an impromptu pirouette.
"Oh, goody, goody, Carroll! mother says I may spend all my money; won't
that be fun? When, mother, when can I buy the bottle for daddy? To-day?
Say yes, mother; please say yes!"

Elizabeth buried her face in her baby's fat neck to conceal the
rebellious smile that would curve her young lips, just when she knew she
ought to be grave and severe.

"If you are a good girl in kindergarten I will take you to the store
this afternoon," she said finally, with an undercurrent of wonder at the
punishment which had so suddenly been metamorphosed into a reward. These
singular transformations were apt to occur when her small daughter was
concerned. She reflected upon the recurrence of the phenomenon as she
brushed the silken mass of Doris' blond hair and fastened up her frock
in the back, both operations being impeded by the wrigglings of the
stalwart infant in her lap.

"I like to smell 'fumery," announced the young person, at the conclusion
of her toilet, "an' I love--I jus' love to hear pennies jingle in my
pocket. Can I empty the money out of my bank now, mother? Can I?" She
swung backward and forward on her toes like a bird poised for flight.

"You must eat your breakfast and go to school," Elizabeth said, trying
hard to keep her rising impatience out of her voice. "And after
school----"

"After school can I take my bank? The very minute it's out? Can I,
mother; can I?"

"You should say _may_ I; not _can_ I, Doris. Yes; if you're a good girl
in kindergarten, and keep hold of Carroll's hand all the way going and
coming, why then----"

"I don't like to take hold of hands with Carroll," objected Doris,
drawing her lips into a scarlet bud. "I like to walk by my lone; but I
promise I won't get run over or anything. I'll be just as good!"

It wasn't far to the little school where both children spent the
morning. Elizabeth watched her darlings quite to the corner, pleased to
observe that they were clinging obediently to each other's hands and
apparently engaged in amicable conversation.

Then her thoughts turned with some anxiety upon the approaching visit of
Miss Tripp. She was very fond of Evelyn Tripp, she assured herself, and
if it were not for Celia, and the spare-room (which needed new curtains,
new paper and a larger rug to cover the worn place in the carpet), and
if--she wrinkled her pretty forehead unbecomingly--the children could
only be depended upon. One could not safely predict the conduct of Doris
from hour to hour; and while, of course, Carroll was the best child in
the world; still, even Carroll--upon occasions--could be very trying to
the nerves. As for Richard, he was the baby; and no one, not even Evelyn
Tripp, could fail to understand the subordinate position of the average
household in its relations to the baby of the house. She kissed and
hugged the small tyrant rapturously, while she set forth a plenitude of
building-blocks, picture-books, trains, engines and wagons of miniature
sizes and brilliant colours calculated to enchain the infant attention.

"Now, darling," she cooed, "here are all your pretty playthings; sit
right down and play, and be a good little man, while mother runs out in
the kitchen a minute to see what Celia is doing."

Richard surveyed his spread-out possessions with a distinctly bored
expression on his round cherubic countenance. He had seen and handled
those trains, wagons, engines and blocks many, many times before, and
they did not appeal to his infant imagination with the same alluring
force as did some other objects in the room. Had his mother seen fit to
install the scarlet locomotive, for example, on the lofty mantle-piece
with a stern interdiction upon it, it would doubtless have appeared
supremely attractive. But the infant mind does not differ in essentials
from that of the adult. The difficult, the forbidden, the almost
unattainable fires the ambition and stiffens the will. There was a glass
tank in the bay-window, situated on what appeared to Richard as a lofty
and well-nigh inaccessible table. It contained a large quantity of water
of a greenish hue, as well as a number of swift-moving, glittering,
golden things which flashed in and out between the green, waving plants
rooted in the sand at the bottom.

Now Richard had been sternly forbidden to touch this enticing
combination of objects. Nevertheless he had done it; not only once, but
twice--thrice. He recalled with rapture the cool, slippery feel of the
stones; the entrancing drip and gurgle of the water; the elusive,
flitting shapes of the yellow things, "sishes," he called them fondly,
which an adroit hand could occasionally manage to seize and hold for a
brief instant.

A stray sunbeam darted into the aquarium and lit up its mysterious
depths with irresistible gorgeousness. Richard gazed and gazed; then he
turned and kicked the red locomotive; under the impact of his pudgy foot
it dashed with futile energy into the ruck of wagons, cars and
building-blocks and lay there on its side, its feeble little wheels
turning slowly.

"Nas'y ol' twain!" muttered the infant disgustedly.




IV


Meanwhile Elizabeth in her kitchen was busy unearthing divers culinary
crimes in the various cupboards and closets where the stolid Celia
displayed a positive ingenuity in concealing the evidences of her
misdoings. It was not perhaps to be wondered at that the untutored
Norwegian should elect to boil her dish-cloth with the embroidered
doilies from the dining-room; or that the soap should be discovered in a
state of gelatinous collapse in the bottom of the scrubbing pail and the
new cereal cooker burning gaily on the range. But Elizabeth's strained
patience finally snapped in twain at sight of a pile of parti-coloured
bits of china in the bottom of the coal-hod.

"My best salad bowl!" she exclaimed, stooping to examine the grimy
fragments. "When did you break it, Celia?"

The girl was standing at the sink, presenting her broad back like a
solidly built wall against the rising tide of her mistress'
indignation. Her big blond head sank forward over her dish-pan; a
guttural murmur issued from her lips.

"And I have always been so careful of it! It was one of my wedding
presents!" continued Elizabeth, in a fine crescendo. "How did you do
it?"

The girl had turned on both faucets, and the descending torrent of
rushing water drowned the anguished inquiry.

"You know I told you never to touch that bowl. I preferred to wash it
myself. You must have taken it out of the dining-room. Why did you do
it?"

"I no take heem out--naw! I smash heem when I move the side-brood." The
girl's broad magenta-tinted face was turned suddenly upon her mistress.
She appeared excessively pleased with her mastery of the difficult
English tongue. "I scrub ze floor; I s-m-a-s-h heem," she repeated
positively.

Elizabeth drew a deep breath. Scrubbing was Celia's one distinguished
accomplishment. The spotless floors and table and the shining faucets
and utensils bore evidence to the earnestness of her purpose and the
undeniable strength of her arms.

"You didn't mean to do it, I am sure," she said at last, with a
renunciatory sigh; "but remember in future you must not move the dishes
on the side-board unless I am there to help you."

"I no move heem; I s-m-a-s-h heem."

"Yes, I understand; but don't do it again."

"I no s-m-a-s-h heem 'gain--Naw!" The girl's china blue eyes gazed
guilelessly into the depths of the coal-hod; she lifted them with a
triumphant smile upon her mistress. "I _have_--s-m-ash!"

The trill of the door-bell put an end to this improving conversation;
Elizabeth answered it herself by way of the sitting-room, where she
paused to remove Richard, damp and dripping, from an ecstatic
exploration of the gold-fish tank. The sound of his passionate protest
followed her to the front door and lent a crisp decision to her tones as
she informed a gentleman of an Hebraic cast of countenance that she did
not wish to exchange old shoes of any description for "an elegant
sauce-pan, lady; cost you one dollar in the store. Only one pair shoes,
lady, this grand piece; cost you one dol----"

Elizabeth shut the door firmly upon the glittering temptation and
returned to her youngest born, who was weeping large tears of wrath in
the middle of the sitting-room floor.

"Come up stairs with mother, Richard; your sleeves are all wet,"
exhorted his mother, struggling with a sudden temptation. It would have
been a relief to her feelings to spank him soundly, and she acknowledged
as much to herself.

"Come, dear," she repeated, in a carefully controlled voice. But
Richard's fat legs doubled limply under him; he appeared unable to take
a single step; whereupon his slender mother masterfully picked him up,
despite the mysterious increase in his weight which she had had frequent
occasion to notice in the person of an angry child.

It was useless at the present moment to remind her son of oft-repeated
prohibitions concerning the gold-fish tank. Elizabeth pondered the
question of an appropriate penalty with knit brows, while she washed and
dressed him in dry garments to the accompaniment of his doleful sobs.

"Now, Richard, you must stay in your crib till you can be a good boy and
mind mother," was the somewhat vague sentence of the maternal court at
the conclusion of the necessary rehabilitation, whereupon the infant
howled anew as if under acute bodily torture.

As she turned to pick up the wet clothing a cheerful voice called her to
the top of the stairs. "Shall I come up, dear? Your kitchen divinity
admitted me and told me to walk right in."

"Oh,--Marian; I'll be right down. I've had to dress Dick over again, and
everything's in confusion. Go in the sitting-room, please."

Elizabeth wanted time to collect herself before meeting the cool, amused
eyes of Marian Stanford, whose ideas on the government of children were
so wholly at variance with her own.

"When you are ready to be a good boy, Richard, you may call mother and I
will come up and take you out of your crib," was her parting observation
to the culprit.

"Oh, Elizabeth, dear; I'm afraid I interrupted a little maternal
seance," was Mrs. Stanford's greeting. "No? Well, I'm glad if I haven't.
It does vex me so when someone chances to call just as I am having it
out with one of the infants."

"Richard got his sleeves wet," explained Richard's mother, with what the
other mentally termed "a really funny air of dignity."

Mrs. Stanford's uplifted eyebrows and a flitting glance in the direction
of the gold-fish tank expressed her complete understanding of the
matter.

"I remember you told me your child was fond of fishing," she murmured.
"So like his dear father."

Elizabeth's tense mouth relaxed into a smile. The howls upstairs had
ceased; but she was conscious of waiting for something, she hardly knew
what, to follow.

"Do tell me what you do in a case like this?" pursued Mrs. Stanford
guilefully. "You know I'm perfectly willing to abandon my crude attempts
at training the infant mind the instant you, or anybody, can show me
something more efficient than my beloved butter-paddle. I tell Jim the
B. P. is my best friend these days. It is absolutely the only thing
that intimidates Robert in the slightest degree."

Elizabeth shrugged her shoulders. "_Intimidates?_" she repeated.

Mrs. Stanford laughed. "Yes; intimidates. My dear, that child is a
terror! I'm at my wit's end with him half the time; and as for
Livingstone, he's going to be worse; I can see that already."

Elizabeth hesitated while the warm colour dyed her cheeks. "You know
what I think about terrifying children into obedience, Marian; and I
know what you think. We really oughtn't to discuss it."

The fine scorn in her eyes suddenly gave place to a look of alarm at
sound of an appalling thump on the floor above. She darted from the room
and up the stairs to the accompaniment of roars of anguish.

Marian Stanford moved her handsome shoulders gently. "She must have put
Richard in his crib and told him to stay there," was her entirely
correct supposition. "Of course he didn't stay put."

Marian Stanford was a graduate of Wellesley, and her mind filled with
fragments of imperfectly acquired science not infrequently chanced upon
a suggestive sequence. She could not resist the temptation to share her
present gleam of enlightenment with dear Elizabeth (who had never been
to college) when she presently returned, bearing Richard in her arms.
The child was still drawing convulsive, half-sobbing breaths, and a
handkerchief wet with witch hazel was laid across his forehead.

"He fell out of his crib, poor darling!" explained Elizabeth.

"I suppose you had told him not to get out?"

Elizabeth eyed her friend speculatively over the top of her baby's curly
head. It was useless to be offended with Marian; she never seemed to be
aware of it.

"You were about to say something enlightening," she observed with
delicate sarcasm. "You may as well out with it."

Mrs. Stanford smiled appreciatively. "You always were a clever creature,
Elizabeth," she drawled; "but had it occurred to you that I would never
have thought of thumping my child as the law of gravitation thumped
yours just now? You wouldn't punish a certain young person for
disobeying because you are so anxious to spare him pain; but I should
say he'd been punished pretty severely--corporal punishment at that!"

"The poor darling fell out of his crib, Marian, and hurt himself. Any
child might do that."

Marian Stanford got to her feet lazily. She was one of those women who
manage to accomplish a great deal of work with the least possible
apparent effort. All her movements were deliberate, even indolent.
Elizabeth envied her sometimes in the midst of her own somewhat
breathless exertions.

"I came over to get your pattern for Carroll's blouse," she said; "not
to discuss the government of children. But we seem to be at it, as
usual. What I meant to convey was commonplace enough; if you had seen
fit to settle the matter of the fish tank with a sound spanking,
administered on the spot, Richard might not--mind I do not say would
not--but he might not have acquired this particular thump at the hands
of Mrs. Be-done-by-as-you-did. It just occurred to me, dear, and you
know I never could keep my thoughts to myself as I should."

Elizabeth arose, deposited her child on the couch and produced a roll of
patterns from a drawer in her desk. "Here is the blouse, Marian," she
said; "you'll need to cut it larger for Robbie; he is so broad in the
shoulders. Be careful about the collar, though, or you'll get it too big
around the neck."

Marian Stanford was weak when it came to sewing. Elizabeth felt herself
again as she saw the puzzled look in her friend's face. "This is the
neck-band," she explained, "and this is the collar. You must be careful
not to stretch the cloth after you have cut it. But you know perfectly
well, Marian, that we _never_ shall think alike about the way to bring
up children. I simply will not whip my children--no matter what they do!
They are not animals to be tortured into submission."

Mrs. Stanford laughed good-humouredly. "I'm afraid mine are," she said.
"But never mind, Betty; we won't quarrel over it; you're too sweetly
useful, and frankly I can't afford to. If I get into a mess over this
blouse I shall come over to be extricated."

Ten minutes later Elizabeth was surprised to hear her husband's rapid
foot in the hall. She ran to meet him with an anxious face.

"Nothing's the matter, dear," he said at once; "that is to say, nothing
alarming. I was over this way to see Biddle & Crofut and ran in to tell
you that Miss Tripp telephoned to the office this morning to inform me
that she'd been called into town a day earlier than she expected to
come, and would I--could I get word to her dearest Elizabeth that she
would be with her this afternoon."

Elizabeth drew a deep breath. "Well," she said resignedly; "Celia is
sweeping the spare room, and I'm making some new curtains out of my old
muslin dress; you'll be surprised to see how well they'll look, Sam. But
I've only a rice pudding for dessert, and----"

"I might order some ice-cream," he suggested, "and some--er----"

A sudden suspicion assailed his Elizabeth; she gazed searchingly at her
husband. "You haven't told me all," she said. "Don't overwhelm me by
saying that Mrs. Tripp is coming too."

He met her inquiring eyes rather shamefacedly. "To tell you the truth,
Betty, Hickey chanced to be in the office at the time the Tripp lady
telephoned, and I--er--recalled what you said last night; so I----"

"You _didn't_ ask Mr. Hickey to dinner to-night, Sam?"

"Why not? Aside from any sentimental considerations George is good
company; and he's very appreciative of a certain little home-maker I
know, and of the dinners he's eaten here in the past."

"But it seems so--sudden!"

He roared with laughter. "'In your mind's eye, Horatio,'" he quoted,
when he had recovered himself somewhat. "You must remember, my dear,
that neither the Tripp lady nor Hickey are aware of your Machiavellian
designs upon their future."

"Mr. Hickey wasn't a part of my _designs_, as you call them," she
reminded him with spirit. "I merely said that I wished poor Evelyn could
find some nice suitable man, and you said----"

"We certainly owe the lady a 'suitable' article of some sort or other,"
he observed, with a reminiscent twinkle in his blue eyes, "if it's
nothing more than a husband, and I'd like you to understand, Betty, that
Hickey is my candidate."

She glanced at her watch with a little shriek of dismay. "We mustn't
waste another minute talking," she said. "Evelyn will be here before I'm
half ready for her."




V


An unlooked for guest, involving new curtains for the guest-room, did
not prevent Elizabeth from the conscientious discharge of her maternal
duties. She resolved for once to play the stern part of Mrs.
Be-done-by-as-you-did.

Richard was playing with his blocks with perfect equanimity, a large
black and blue lump on his forehead marking his recent experience with
the undeviating law of gravitation. He gave utterance to a little yelp
of protest as his mother took him up in her lap with a firm hand.

"You know, Richard," she said solemnly, "that mother has told you ever
so many times that you must not put your hand into the aquarium where
the pretty gold-fish live. Why didn't you mind mother?"

There being a new link established in the chain of associations
connected with the gold-fish, the infant put his fat hand to the lump on
his forehead and gazed unwinkingly at his parent.

"I like to sp'ash water," he announced conclusively. "I like bafs."

Elizabeth reflected that in a rudimentary way her child was endeavouring
to make clear his motives, and even to place them on a praiseworthy
basis. A feeling of pride in the distinguished intelligence of her
children swelled within her; she suppressed it as she went on with an
impressive show of maternal authority.

"Yes, Richard; mother knows you like to take your bath; but we don't
take baths with the gold-fish. Besides, you got your nice clean dress
all wet, and made poor mother a great deal of trouble. Then, when mother
told you to stay in your crib, you disobeyed again and got a dreadful
bump."

The infant appeared to ponder these indubitable statements for a space.
Then he broke into an ingratiating smile. "I was tomin' to tell mudzer I
was a dood boy," he said earnestly. "Zen I bumped my head."

The violet depths of his eyes under their upturned lashes were
altogether adorable; so was his pink mouth, half parted and curved
exquisitely like the petals of a flower. Elizabeth's arms closed round
her treasure; her lips brushed the warm rose of his cheeks.

"Darling!" she murmured, for the moment quite losing sight of the fact
that she was engaged in the difficult task of moral suasion. Elizabeth
was almost guiltily open to the appeal of infantile beauty as opposed to
the stern demands of discipline. The sight of a dimple, appearing and
disappearing in a soft cheek, the quiver of baby lips; the irresistible
twinkle of dawning humour in baby eyes were enough to distract her mind
from any number of infantile peccadillos, and it is to be feared that
the exceedingly intelligent Brewster children had become aware of it.

"I am a dood boy," repeated Richard, with a bewitching glance at his
parent. Then his chin quivered pathetically and he raised his hand to
his head and peered out from under his pink palm. "I bumped my head on
ze floor."

Elizabeth hardened her heart against these multiplied fascinations. "You
disobeyed mother twice," she said sternly. "I shall have to do something
to make you remember not to touch the gold-fish again."

She looked about her somewhat uncertainly as if in search of a suitable
yet entirely safe idea. "I think," she said solemnly, "that I shall tie
you to the arm of this big chair for--_ten minutes_!"

The corners of Richard's pink mouth suddenly drooped as this terrible
sentence of the maternal court was pronounced.

"I am a dood boy, mudzer," he quavered. "I bumped my head on ze floor
an' I cwied!"

Two dimpled arms were thrown about Elizabeth's neck and a curly head
burrowed passionately into her bosom. "I love 'oo, mudzer; I am a dood
boy!"

"I know you mean to be good, darling!" exclaimed Elizabeth, her heart
melting within her; "but you do forget so often. Mother wants to help
you to remember."

But the intelligent infant had given himself up to an unpremeditated
luxury of grief, and Elizabeth found herself in the unexpected position
of a suppliant consoler. She begged her child to stop crying; she kissed
the black and blue spot on his forehead and soothed him with soft
murmurs and gentle caresses, and when finally he had sobbed himself to
sleep in her arms, she bestowed the moist rosy little bundle on the
couch, covering him warmly; then, with a parting pat and cuddle, sat
down to her belated work on the spare-room curtains, feeling that she
had been very severe indeed with her youngest child.

Richard was still rosily asleep and Elizabeth was hurriedly attaching
the ruffles to one of the improvised curtains when Celia, with two
buttons off her frock in the back and a broad streak of stove-blacking
across her honest red face, announced "one nize lady."

Elizabeth sprang to her feet in sudden consternation at sight of the
small square of white pasteboard with which Celia prefaced her
announcement.

Mrs. J. Mortimer Van Duser was a distant relative of Samuel Brewster's,
and it pleased her to be kind, in an imposing and majestic
manner--entirely suited to her own imposing and majestic person--to his
"little family," as she invariably termed it. Elizabeth had assured her
husband on more than one occasion that she did not feel the least
embarrassment in that august presence; but her heart still flew to her
mouth at sight of the entirely correct equipage from Beacon Street, and
she always found herself drawing a long breath of unconfessed relief
when it rolled away after one of Mrs. Van Duser's infrequent visits.

When presently Mrs. Van Duser, large, bland and encased in broadcloth
and sables, entered, she bestowed a gracious kiss upon Elizabeth's
cheek, and seated herself in a straight-backed chair with the effect of
a magistrate about to administer justice.

"I trust you received the little brochure I mailed you last week," was
her initial remark, accompanied by a searching glance at Elizabeth's
agitated face. "I refer to 'Anthropological investigations on one
thousand children, white and coloured.' I looked it over most carefully
and marked the passages I deemed particularly helpful and suggestive."

"Thank you, Mrs. Van Duser," faltered Elizabeth, "I did get the book,
and I--was intending to write to you to-day to thank you for it."

"Have you read it?" inquired Mrs. Van Duser pointedly.

"I--looked it over, and--it appeared very----"

Mrs. Van Duser's steadfast gaze appeared to demand the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth. Elizabeth's eyes fell before it. "It
was very good of you to--to think of me," she said.

"I think of you not infrequently," was the lady's gracious rejoinder,
"and more particularly of your children, who are, of course, distantly
related to myself. I cannot urge too strongly, or too often, the need of
a scientific study of infancy and childhood as causally related to the
proper functional development of your offspring."

"I am sure it is most kind of you," murmured Elizabeth, striving to
kindle an appreciative glow. "But--I have so little time."

"You have all the time there is, my dear Elizabeth," chanted Mrs. Van
Duser, in her justly celebrated platform tone; "and you should strive
above all things to distinguish what is significant and essential from
what is trivial and accidental." Her voice sank to a heart-searching
contralto, as she added, "I have observed that you have time to sew
trimming on your child's frock. What is trimming as compared with the
demands of the springing intellect?"

Elizabeth blushed guiltily and murmured something unintelligible.

"Did you study the passages marked in 'Nascent Stages and their
Significance,' which I sent you the week before?--particularly those on
'The feelings and their expression'?" asked Mrs. Van Duser, after a
weighty pause.

Elizabeth drew a deep breath. "I--found it not altogether easy to
understand," she said guilefully.

"For an untrained mind--no," agreed Mrs. Van Duser blandly. "I feared as
much, and I have come this morning because I wished to go over with you
somewhat exhaustively the points mentioned by the author, in order to
compare them with your own more practical experience. I am about to
present a paper before the Ontological Club on 'The Emotive States as
factors in the education of The Child,' which I feel sure should prove
invaluable to all thoughtful parents. I had intended," she added, with a
mordant emphasis on the past tense of the verb, "to dedicate the
brochure to you upon publication."

At this point in the conversation, and before Elizabeth had time to
express her blended contrition, gratitude and appreciation, two
hurriedly slammed doors and the clatter of small feet in the passage
announced the return of the children from school.

Mrs. Van Duser's severe expression relaxed perceptibly. "How very
fortunate," she observed. "I was hoping for an opportunity of studying
certain phenomena at first hand. You know, my dear, I so seldom see
children."

Elizabeth's tender heart was touched by the unconscious wistfulness in
the older woman's eyes. But she sighed at sight of the gilt-edged
memorandum book in the hands of her guest. She was familiar with the
exhaustive methods employed by Mrs. Van Duser in the pursuit of
knowledge.

"You will not, I hope, interrupt any normal procedure," that lady was
saying in a sprightly tone, calculated to restore the depressed spirits
of the younger matron to their usual level. "I should like--if I may--to
observe the children at their luncheon, since the sense stimuli
connected with the taking of food is exceedingly instructive as related
to the cosmic consciousness."

"I shall be very happy to have you lunch with us," faltered Elizabeth,
her thoughts busying themselves with a futile review of the contents of
her larder. Then the door flew open and Carroll and Doris dashed in,
breathless and eager, to precipitate their small persons upon their
mother's lap.

"I was a _nawful_ good girl in kindergarten, mother!" announced Doris,
dancing with impatience, "an' I didn't get run over, or anythin'. When
can I go to the store an' spend all my money, mother? _When?_ Can I go
_now_?"

"Doris, dear; don't you see Mrs. Van Duser? and Carroll----"

But the boy had already advanced politely, and was standing before the
magisterial presence with a funny little air of resignation to the
inevitable which forced a smile to his mother's serious lips.

"Can you tell me, my boy, why you experience pleasure at the sight of
your mother?" demanded Mrs. Van Duser, gazing searchingly at the child
through her gold-mounted lorgnettes.

"I--like my mother, better'n any body else," replied the boy, with a
worried pucker of his smooth forehead.

"_Like?_" echoed his inquisitor, looking up from a hurriedly pencilled
note. "And what, pray, do you mean by 'like'?"

"I mean I--love her, because she's the bestest person I know."

"Is it because she gives you food when you are hungry that you love your
parent? Or can you give me another reason?" continued Mrs. Van Duser,
ignoring the comprehensive statement advanced by the boy.

Carroll glanced doubtfully after his mother, as she hastily withdrew to
look after the luncheon table.

"I--don't know," he stammered. "I guess I like her when I'm hungry just
the same."

"C., aged eight years, unable to enumerate reasons for fondness of
parent," wrote Mrs. Van Duser, with every appearance of satisfaction.
"The reasoning faculties apparently dormant at this age."

"What are you most afraid of?" was her next question, accompanied by an
ingratiating smile, calculated to disarm youthful timidity.

At this moment Richard, who had been peacefully asleep on the sofa,
awoke, and becoming slowly aware of the majestic presence at his side,
set up a doleful cry.

Whereupon Mrs. Van Duser noted neatly that "an unexpected visual
impression evidently caused anxiety, without any assignable reason, in
the normal infant R."

And when the normal infant scrambled down from the couch and retreated
kitchenward under the careful supervision of his older brother, she
observed further that "the dawning of the paternal instinct of
protection was observable in the child C."




VI


The conduct of the children at the luncheon table was marked by such
unexampled propriety of manner that Mrs. Van Duser was visibly
disappointed. She could hardly have been expected to know that Elizabeth
had resorted to shameless bribery in advance of the meal with a shining
coin in each small pocket, "to be spent exactly as you choose," and that
Richard was taking his food in the kitchen under the lax supervision of
the Norwegian maid. Still the occasion was not wholly barren of material
for a trained psychologist, as Mrs. Van Duser was pleased to term
herself.

"The psychophysical processes," she observed learnedly, "should be
closely observed by the wise guardian, in order to properly graft
desired complications on native reactions."

"I am afraid I do not altogether understand," murmured Elizabeth,
secretly grateful that her guest's preoccupation of mind rendered her
oblivious to the blunders of Celia, as she plodded heavily about the
table. "But I should like to ask you, Mrs. Van Duser, if you approve
of--whipping children?"

Mrs. Van Duser dropped her pencil and focussed her piercing regard upon
the wife of her distant relative.

"Decidedly not, my dear Elizabeth," she enunciated in her deepest
contralto. "Corporal punishment brutalises the child by implying that a
rational being is, or may be, on the level of the animal. It can be only
too evident that if one treats a child like an animal, it will behave
like an animal. I will send you an excellent pamphlet on the subject,
which you will do well to study. In the meantime you should
remember----"

Mrs. Van Duser stopped short, raised her lorgnette and stared hard at
Doris. That young person had suddenly left her chair and was whispering
in her mother's ear, in the peculiar, sibilant whisper of an eager
child.

"I'm through of my dinner, mother," was wafted distinctly to the
attentive ears of the guest. "An' I want to go an' buy daddy's 'fumery
this minute. You said I might, mother; you said I might.--Yes; but
_when_ is she going home, mother? _when?_"

Far from evincing displeasure the great lady displayed the sincerest
gratification. "A most interesting example of ideation," she observed.
"My dear Elizabeth, please explain the child's emotions, if you are
aware of them. I fail to observe anger or dislike, or even--as might
well be expected--awe. Why do you wish me to go home?" she inquired
directly of Doris, who had retreated behind her mother's chair in
pouting dismay.

Elizabeth experienced a hysterical desire to laugh; but she instantly
repressed it. "You should explain to Mrs. Van Duser, Doris, that you
spilled father's bay-rum this morning, and that mother said you must buy
him a fresh bottle with your own money," she said soberly.

"I want to go _now_," whispered the child. "You said I might, mother;
you _promised_!"

"Excellent!" exclaimed Mrs. Van Duser, writing rapidly in her book. "You
really ought, my dear Elizabeth, to preserve a careful memoranda of
these interesting mental movements of your offspring," she observed
convincingly. "Every properly constructed parent should endeavour to so
assist science. However crudely and unscientifically expressed, such
records would prove of incalculable value to the student."

She turned to Doris with a complete change of manner. It was no longer
the ontological Mrs. Van Duser, but the great lady from Beacon Street
who spoke. "You have been very rude indeed, my child," she said sternly;
"and little girls should never be rude; but I will take you with me in
the carriage to purchase the toilet article referred to, and send you
home afterwards, if your mother will permit."

As Elizabeth watched the flushed and triumphant Doris, departing in
state in the Van Duser carriage, the jingling contents of her bank in
her small pocket, she was conscious of a bewildering sense of failure.
She had sincerely tried to impress a lesson of obedience and a respect
for the rights of others upon the mind of her child, and, lo! the
culprit was enjoying a long-wished-for treat!

The arrival of Miss Evelyn Tripp, in a hansom cab with a small
much-belabelled trunk on top, successfully diverted her mind from this
and other ethical problems. Miss Tripp's recent misfortunes had as yet
left no traces on her slight, elegant personality. She entered quite in
her old fashion, amid a subdued rustle of soft silken garments, a
flutter of plumes and a gracious odour of violets.

"My dear!" she exclaimed, clasping and kissing Elizabeth, quite in the
latest mode. "How well you are looking! Indeed, you are younger and far,
far prettier than the day you were married! How vividly I remember that
day, and I am sure you do! How I did work to have everything pass off as
it should, and so many persons have told me since that it was really the
sweetest wedding they ever saw! It hardly seems possible that it was so
long ago. What! You don't tell me that great boy is Carroll! Come here
and let Aunty Evelyn kiss you, dear. And Doris? She was such a dear,
tiny thing when I saw her last. Oh, that is the baby; you say! No;
Elizabeth--not that great child! Fancy! I declare I feel like a
Methuselah when I look at my friend's children. I hate to grow
old--really old; don't you know."

Miss Tripp paused to remove her plumed hat, while Elizabeth hastened to
assure her friend that she really hadn't changed in the least. This was
quite true, since Miss Tripp was of that somewhat thin and colourless
type of American womanhood upon which the passing years appear to leave
little trace.

"Oh, my dear!" sighed Miss Tripp, "I am changed; everything has changed
with me, I assure you. Mother and I are obliged to live off air, exactly
like wee little church mice. And I am simply worn to a fringe trying to
economise and manage. I never was extravagant; you know that, dear, but
now----. Well; I don't know what will become of us unless something
happens."

"Something will happen, dear," said Elizabeth, more than ever
warm-heartedly determined to make her friend as happy as herself. "Now
I'm going to leave you to lie down and rest a little before dinner," she
added guilefully, as she bethought herself of the various culinary
operations already in progress under the unthinking control of Celia. "A
friend of Sam's--a Mr. Hickey, chances to be dining here to-night; I
hope you won't mind, dear. It--just happened so."

Miss Tripp turned to gaze searchingly at her friend. "You can't mean
George Hickey--a civil engineer?" she asked.

"Why, yes; do you know him?"

"My dear; it's the oddest thing; but lately I seem to meet that man
wherever I go. He is a friend of the Gerald Doolittles in
Dorchester--you know who I mean--and spends a Sunday there occasionally;
and when I was visiting Leticia Marston last fall, lo and behold! Mr.
Hickey turned up there for the week end! I used to know him years ago
when we were both children."

"Sam is associated with Mr. Hickey in a professional way," observed
Elizabeth, with a careful indifference of manner. "He dines with us once
in a while." She paused to listen, with her head on one side, while a
look of alarm stole over her attentive face.

"What's the matter, dear?" inquired the unaccustomed Miss Tripp. "Do you
hear anything?"

"No, Evelyn; I don't, and the silence is suspicious. I think I'll run
down stairs and see what the boys are doing. Try and rest, dear, till I
call you." And Elizabeth accomplished a hasty exit by way of the back
stairs and the kitchen, where she was in time to frustrate the
intelligent Celia as she was about putting the French peas over to boil
an hour before dinner time. From thence she sought the sitting-room,
where she had left her two sons amicably engaged in constructing a tall
and wobbly tower out of building blocks. Carroll had vanished, and her
amazed and indignant eyes lighted upon the person of her youngest son
kneeling in a chair before the forbidden aquarium, over which he leaned
in a state of rapturous oblivion of past experiences, his plump hands
buried in the sand at the bottom of the tank, while the alarmed gold
fish flashed in and out between the dripping sleeves of his
freshly-ironed blouse.

"Richard Brewster!" she cried. Then wrath and a disheartening sense of
the futility of unassisted moral suasion quite swept her off her feet.
She seized the child and laying him across her lap in time-honoured
fashion, handed down from a remote ancestry, spanked him with a speed
and thoroughness not to be surpassed by Grandmother Carroll in her most
energetic mood.




VII


Elizabeth was fluttering anxiously about the table in her small
dining-room when her husband entered in his usual breezy fashion and
laid a bunch of fragrant carnations before her.

"A finishing touch for your table, Betty," he said; and added with
lover-like enthusiasm, "My! how pretty you're looking to-night!"

"I shouldn't think I'd look pretty after the day I've put in," she told
him as she arranged the flowers in water. "Sam, Mrs. Van Duser was here
to luncheon."

"No?"

"She came to ask me if I had read 'Anthropological Investigations on one
thousand children, white and colored,' and I hadn't even looked at it."

"So you flatly flunked the exam; poor Betty!"

"Not exactly, Sam; I--told her I didn't quite--understand the subject."

"Ah, Machiavellian Betty! Did she tumble?"

"Oh, Sam! what a way to speak of Mrs. Van Duser. I was the one to
tumble, as you call it. She graciously picked me up. Of course Doris was
naughty, and Celia spilled cocoa on the table-cloth and passed
everything on the wrong side. Then after Mrs. Van Duser went, Evelyn
came.--She's up-stairs now, dressing for dinner. And--after that--I
don't know what you'll think of me, Sam; but I--was nervous or something
I think, and I--whipped Richard."

"You--what?"

"After all I've said about Marian Stanford, too! I just hate myself for
doing it. But I had dressed that child twice all clean, and when I came
down to see about dinner and found him playing in the aquarium _again_,
Sam, dripping water all over the floor, and with his clothes soaked to
the skin, I just seemed to lose all control of myself. I snatched the
poor darling up and--and--spanked him as hard as I could. The strange
part of it is that I--seemed to enjoy doing it."

Her doleful air of abject contrition was too much for Sam. He roared
with irrepressible laughter. "Forgive me, Betty," he entreated; "but
really, you know----"

"I understand now exactly why people whip their children," went on
Elizabeth, descending into abysmal depths of humility and grovelling
there with visible satisfaction. "I gave way to uncontrollable rage just
because I knew I must take the trouble to dress the poor little darling
again, and I couldn't think for the minute what flannels to put on him.
So I revenged myself, in just a common, spiteful, vulgar way. No, Sam;
you needn't try to make light of what I did. Nothing can excuse it!"

At that instant the misused infant, dragging a train of iron cars behind
him, hove into view.

"Chu-chu-chu!" he droned. "Det out the way! Here tomes the 'spress
train!" His cherubic countenance was serene and rosy; he beamed
impartially upon his parents as he scuffed across the floor.

"Well," said his father, endeavouring (unsuccessfully) to view the
matter in a serious light, "I fail to observe any signs of violent abuse
or tokens of abject fear about the young person; I guess you didn't----"

"Hush, Sam! I hope he's forgotten it--the darling! Do you love mother,
baby?"

"I'm a dreat big engine-man!" vociferated the infant, submitting
cheerfully to his mother's kisses, "an' I love 'oo more'n a sousand
million! Chu-chu! Toot-toot! Ding-dong!"

"How about the other young Brewsters?" inquired their father, with a
twinkle of mock solicitude in his blue eyes. "Have they been pursuing
the undeviating paths of rectitude, or have you--er--been moved to----"

"Sam, if you make fun of me about--what I did to Richard, I----" her
voice broke, and she hid her eyes on his shoulder. "I thought," she
said, "that it was my duty to tell you."

"I'm not making fun of you, little woman. Perish the thought!" and he
kissed her convincingly. "I don't know what I should--or shouldn't
do--if I had to cope with the young miscreants single-handed all day.
Where is Doris, by the way?"

She told him about the broken bay-rum bottle, and described the scene at
the luncheon table. "I was so ashamed," she concluded; "but what could I
do?"

"Let me laugh again, Betty!" he begged. "That's too much, you know.
Fancy our small Doris having the--er--audacity to stand up and audibly
hint that Mrs. J. Mortimer Van Duser's room would be more acceptable
than her company. I wish I'd been there to see and hear."

"Mrs. Van Duser said that it was a most interesting example of
ideation--whatever that is," said his Elizabeth rather proudly. "She's
writing a paper for the Ontological Club, and she's going to put all
three of the children in."

"As what--Concrete examples of the genus _enfant terrible_?" he inquired
cautiously.

Elizabeth was surveying her table with satisfied eyes. She did not
appear to have heard his question.

"It may be hard work to take care of all that silver and glass we had
for wedding presents, Sam," she said thoughtfully; "but on occasions it
is useful."

"Yes; if the foreigner in the kitchen didn't too often turn our dancing
into mourning by smashing it."

"I'm not going to let Celia wash one of these dishes," she told him
firmly.

"Who is going to wash them?" he asked resignedly.

"I am--after Mr. Hickey's gone and Evelyn's in bed."

"'That means me,'" he quoted irreverently. "I'm a thoroughly
house-broken husband, and you can depend upon me, Betty, every shot."

She flashed him a grateful smile. "Of course I know that, Sam," was all
she said; but her eyes were eloquent of love and happy trust. "What do
you think, Sam," she added irrelevantly; "Evelyn has known Mr. Hickey a
long time already."

"So much the better for Hickey!"

"Yes; that's what I thought. You see, Sam, if--if anything should
happen, it wouldn't be all our doing; and so in a way, Sam, I actually
felt relieved when Evelyn said that she had met Mr. Hickey before. It is
really an awful responsibility."

"What? to ask Hickey to dinner? He didn't seem to mind it."

"Don't be flippant, Sam," she said with dignity. "You know perfectly
well what I mean. If Mr. Hickey _should_ fall in love with Evelyn--and I
will say that she never looked more attractive than she does now--and
if she should----"

He interrupted her with a hasty kiss. "I've got to go up and dress," he
reminded her. "Don't you worry, Betty; if he should, and she should,
then they both would; and all you and I would be required to do would be
to buy them a clock that wouldn't go, or a dozen _pate de foies gras_
implements--only let it be something useful. By the way, I see you've
set the table for the children. Do you think that is--er--exactly the
part of wisdom?"

"No, Sam; I do not. But I had to make it up to Richard someway, so I
promised to let him have dinner with us, and Evelyn quite insisted upon
the others. She thinks Carroll simply perfect, and she says Doris is the
most fascinating child she ever saw."

"Well," he acquiesced, "they're the biggest and best half of the
Brewster family, when you come to think of it, and Hickey always wants
to see them when he comes."

Half an hour later Elizabeth was putting the finishing touches to her
toilet, while the children, immaculate and shining, hovered admiringly
about the dressing-table.

"Now remember, Carroll, you mustn't get to quarrelling with Doris about
anything."

"I won't, mother; I promise."

"We're going to have ice-cream for dessert, and----"

"Oh-e-e!" in a rapturous chorus from all the children.

"I don't want you to make that noise when Celia brings it in to the
table; that's why I'm telling you beforehand."

Richard was pirouetting heavily on his little stubbed shoes. "Oh-e-e!"
he repeated, "ice-cweam!"

"Now, do you think you can remember?" asked Elizabeth, clasping a string
of gold beads about her pretty throat, and turning to meet the three
pairs of upturned eyes. "I want Aunty Evelyn to think you've improved a
great deal since the last time she was here. You weren't very good that
time."

Carroll's clear gaze met his mother's reprovingly. "Do you want Aunty
Evelyn to think we've improved, if we haven't?" he asked. "Because we're
really getting badder most every day."

"You're badder, you mean," said Doris, with a superior and pitying
smile; "I'm as good 's I can be. Mrs. Van Duser said I was a very
inter-est-in' 'zample of a child. So there!"

Carroll shook his head. "I'm not going to quarrel with you, Doris,
'cause I promised mother I wouldn't," he said with dignity; "but we are
badder--'specially you; you didn't mind mother three times to-day."

"I am not badder."

"I said I wouldn't quarrel, Doris; but you are--very much badder."

"Hush, children!" exclaimed Elizabeth, hurriedly intervening between the
militant pair. "Come right down stairs, and don't talk to each other at
all unless you can be pleasant and polite."

Miss Evelyn Tripp presently appeared in a wonderful toilet, all lace and
twinkling jets. She exclaimed over Carroll's marvellous gain in inches,
and Doris' brilliant colour, and kissed and cooed over Richard.

"They're certainly the dearest children in the world," she said. "I've
been simply wild to see them all these months, and you, too, Betty dear!
I've so much to tell you!"

She twined her arm caressingly about Doris, and smiled brilliantly down
at the little girl, who gazed with round appreciative eyes at the
visitor's gown and at the jewels which sparkled on her small white
hands.

"Both of my front teeth are all wiggly," whispered the child, feeling
that something out of the ordinary was demanded of her in a social way.
"I can wiggle them with my tongue."

"Can you, darling? How remarkable! Never mind; you'll soon have some
nice new ones that won't wiggle."

Doris giggled rapturously. "We're going to have ice-cream for dinner,"
was her next confidence. "But I'm not going to act s'prised when Celia
brings it in. We've all promised mother we won't, even if it's pink. I
hope it'll be pink; don't you?"

"Doris," warned her mother, "you're talking too much."

"Oh, do let the dear little soul say anything she likes to me, Betty!"
protested Miss Tripp. "If you knew how I enjoyed it!"

Doris nestled closer to the visitor, eyeing her mother with the
naughtily demure expression of a kitten stealing cream. "I was going to
tell you something funny," she said, "but I can't think what it was. I
guess I'll remember when we're eating dinner."

"The artless prattle of a child is so refreshing, you know," continued
Miss Tripp, "after all the empty conventionalities of society. I simply
love to hear the little darlings--especially yours, dear Betty. You are
bringing them up so beautifully!"




VIII


When Mr. George Hickey rang the bell at the door of the modest Brewster
residence that night, it was with the pleasant anticipation of a simple,
but well-cooked dinner, of the sort a bachelor, condemned by his
solitary estate to prolonged residence in that semi-public caravansary
known as the American boarding-house, seldom enjoys.

He was very far indeed from a knowledge of the fact that he was in the
oft-quoted position of the man in a boat on the hither side of the great
rapids of Niagara. Mr. Hickey had allowed himself to be drawn into
feeling a somewhat uncommon interest in Miss Evelyn Tripp, it is true;
but he attributed this feeling wholly to the fact that he had known Miss
Tripp when he was a tall, awkward boy of twenty and she was a rosy,
fascinating miss of sixteen. She had laughed at him slily in those days,
and he had resented her mirth with all the secret and hence futile
agony which marks the intercourse of the awkward youth with the
self-possessed maid. But the scar which Evelyn's youthful laughter had
left in his bosom had remained unwontedly tender--as an old wound
sometimes will; and when after the lapse of years they had met once more
Mr. Hickey found the lady so surprisingly sweet, so gentle, so
altogether tactful and sympathetic, that he could hardly escape a
pleasant and soothing sense of gratitude. They spoke of old times--very
old times they were; the mere mention of which brought a delicate blush
to Miss Tripp's cheek. And the auroral light of youth, which never
appears so roseate as when it shines upon the cold peaks of middle life,
irradiated their common past and appeared to linger fascinatingly over
Miss Tripp's somewhat faded person.

It had not, however, occurred to Mr. Hickey that the foregoing had any
bearing whatever upon his own immediate future, nor upon the immediate
future of Miss Evelyn Tripp. In a word, Mr. Hickey was very far from
contemplating matrimony when he entered the Brewster's cheerful little
parlour, bearing a box of bonbons for its mistress, and a jumping-jack
capable of singular and varied contortions, for the young Brewsters.

Miss Tripp appeared very much surprised to meet Mr. Hickey again; she
gave him a beautiful little hand of welcome from the deep chair where
she was enthroned with Richard upon her knee ruthlessly crumpling the
skirt of one of her carefully cherished gowns.

"I'm telling the children a fairy story," she said archly; "you mustn't
interrupt."

"May I listen, if I'm a good boy?" asked Mr. Hickey, endeavouring to
assume a light and festive society air, which hardly comported with his
tall spare figure and the air of sober professionalism which he had
acquired during a somewhat stern and strenuous past.

Carroll, who guarded Miss Tripp's chair on the right, exchanged puzzled
glances with Doris who occupied the left. The little girl giggled.

"You aren't a boy," she said, addressing Mr. Hickey with a confidence
inspired by past acquaintanceship; "you're all grown up."

"I like fairy stories, anyway," he asserted untruthfully; "and I want
to hear the one Miss Tripp is telling. You'll let me; won't you, Doris?"

"I'll let you, if Aunty Evelyn'll let you; but I guess she won't."

Miss Tripp laughed musically. "What a quaint little dear it is," she
murmured, kissing the child's pink cheek. "Why shouldn't Aunty Evelyn
let Mr. Hickey hear the story if he wants to, dear?"

"He's too old," said Doris convincingly. "He wouldn't care about
Cinderella losing off her glass slipper."

"Oh-e-e, Doris Brewster!" exclaimed Carroll, swelling with the superior
enlightenment of his three years of seniority. "That's very rude indeed!
Mr. Hickey doesn't look so very old. He's got quite a lot of hair left
on the sides of his head, and----"

"Thanks, my boy," interrupted Mr. Hickey hastily. "But don't entirely
floor me by enumerating all my youthful charms. How about that slipper
of Cinderella's, Miss Tripp; there's a prince in that story, isn't
there? with--er--plenty of hair on top of his head?"

Miss Tripp, who was actually blushing pink, quite in her old girlish
fashion, exchanged mirthful glances with the engineer.

"I was just coming to the prince," she said. "He was--oh, such a
beautiful prince, all dressed in pale blue, embroidered with pearls and
silver, and on his breast a great flashing diamond star. And when he saw
Cinderella, standing all by herself, in her beautiful gauzy
ball-dress----"

"An' her glass slippers!" gurgled Doris rapturously.

"An' her gwass sippers!" echoed Richard, hugging the story-teller in a
sudden spasm of affection.

"Yes, her glass slippers, of course, darlings," cooed Miss Tripp; "but
the prince did not notice the slippers, he was so agitated by the sight
of her lovely face and her shining golden hair."

Mr. Hickey caught himself gazing dreamily at Miss Tripp's elaborately
arranged coiffure. The yellow gas light fell becomingly upon the
abundant light brown waves and coils, touching them into a shimmering
gold which he did not remember to have noticed before. How well she was
telling the story, too; and how fond of her the Brewster children
appeared to be. He recalled mistily that someone had said, or
written--perhaps it was one of those old author chaps--that it was
impossible to deceive a child. Mr. Hickey was convinced that this must
be true. And insensibly he fell to thinking how pleasant it would be if
this were his own fire-side, and if the lady in the deep wicker chair
were----.

A sound of small hand-clapping brought him out of this blissful revery
with a start. "I like that part best of all," Carroll was saying; "an'
if I'd been that prince I'd 'av taken my big, shining sword and cut off
the heads of those bad, wicked sisters! Yes; I would; I'd like to do
it!" And the sanguinary small boy swaggered up and down, his shoulders
squared and his eyes shining.

"Oh, my dear!" protested Miss Tripp mildly. "You wouldn't be so unkind;
I'm sure you wouldn't."

"I'd take all their pretty dresses away an' wear 'em myself," shrilled
Doris excitedly. "An' I'd--pinch 'em; I'd----"

"Let me tell you what dear, sweet Cinderella did," interrupted Miss
Tripp, tactfully seizing the opportunity to impress a moral lesson.
"She forgave her unkind step-mother and her two rude, spiteful sisters,
and gave them each a castle and many, many lovely gowns and jewels; and
after that they loved Cinderella dearly--they couldn't help it. And all
of them were good and happy for ever afterward."

The children stared in round-eyed displeasures at this ethical but
entirely tame denouement.

"That isn't in my story-book," said Carroll positively. "Cinderella
married the Prince, an' the fairy god-mother turned the bad sisters into
rats, an' made 'em draw her carriage for ever an' ever."

"Why, Carroll Brewster! I guess you made that up!" cried Doris. "The
fairy god-mother didn't turn the bad sisters into anything; she jus'
waved her wand an' turned Cinderella's ol' ragged clo'es into a lovely
spangled weddin' dress, an' then----"

"She turned 'em into rats," repeated Carroll doggedly. "An' I'm glad she
did it."

"She did not turn 'em into rats!"

"She did!"

"She didn't!"

At this crucial moment entered Elizabeth, flushed and bright-eyed from
a final encounter with the elemental forces in the kitchen. "Won't you
all come out to dinner," she said prettily; "I'm sure you must have
concluded that dining was among the lost arts by this time."

"Not in this house," said Mr. Hickey gallantly. "This is one of the
few--the very few places where one has the inestimable privilege of
really dining. The balance of the time I merely take food from a strict
sense of duty."

"We're going to have ice-cream," whispered Carroll kindly.

His father, who had caught the whisper, laughed outright. "He wants to
give you something to look forward to, George," he said, as he tried the
edge of his carving-knife. "If variety is the spice of life anticipation
might be said to be its sweetening--eh? Will you have your beef rare or
well-done, Miss Tripp?"

"Well-done, if you please," murmured Miss Tripp, smiling happily as she
squeezed Doris' chubby hand under the table-cloth.

The little girl's eyes were very bright as she said, "I like to have
you a-visitin', Aunty Evelyn."

"Do you, dear? Well Aunty Evelyn is very, very happy to be here."

"We were going to have rice-pudding for dessert if you hadn't come. I
don't like rice-pudding; do you, Aunty Evelyn?"

"Doris--dear!"

Her mother's voice held reproof and warning; but the child with the
specious sense of security inspired by the presence of strangers
displayed her dimples demurely. "I didn't know it was naughty not to
like rice-pudding," she said, in a small distinct voice.

Mr. Hickey glanced thoughtfully across the table at Miss Tripp, who was
smiling down at the little girl encouragingly. "Most of us are naughty
when it comes to hankering after the unusual and the unattainable," he
observed didactically. "I eat my rice-pudding contentedly enough most
days of the year; but on the three hundred and sixty-fifth I----"

"You pine for pink ice-cream; don't you?" smiled Miss Tripp; "but one
might tire of even the pinkest ice-cream, if it appeared too often. What
one really wants is--plain bread." She cast a barely perceptible glance
at Elizabeth, the laces at her throat quivering with the ghost of a
sigh. The next instant she was laughing at Richard whose curly head was
beginning to droop heavily over his food.

"Poor little fellow," she murmured. "Do look, Elizabeth, he's almost
gone!"

"Won't you carry him up-stairs for me, Sam?" Elizabeth begged her
husband. "I ought not to have kept him up for dinner.--You'll excuse us
just an instant; won't you?"

It was a pretty picture; the tall, stalwart father lifting the child
rosy with sleep, and the little mother hovering anxiously near, like a
small brown bird. Mr. Hickey observed it solemnly; Miss Tripp smilingly;
then, for some reason unknown to both, their eyes met.

"--Er--let me pass you the--bread, Miss Tripp," said Mr. Hickey,
short-sightedly choosing among the viands immediately within his reach.

"Thank you, Mr. Hickey," said Evelyn, and again that faint, elusive sigh
shook the delicate laces at her throat.




IX


As Miss Tripp was putting the finishing touches to a careful toilet the
next morning she caught the sound of a whispered dispute in the hall;
then small knuckles were cautiously applied to the panel of her chamber
door.

"Aunty Evelyn! Aunty Evelyn! are you waked up?"

Miss Tripp had been brooding since daylight over the accumulated
problems which appeared to crowd her narrow horizon like so many
menacing thunder-caps; but she summoned a faint smile to her lips as she
opened the door.

"Why, good-morning, dears!" she cried cheerfully at sight of the two
small figures in their gay dressing-gowns and scarlet slippers.

"We want to hear a story, Aunty Evelyn," announced Doris, prancing
boldly in, each individual curl on her small head bobbing like coiled
wire. "We like stories."

"Come here, pet, and let Aunty brush your curls."

"No; I don't want my curls brushed; I want to hear a story about a
be-utiful princess going to seek her fortune."

Miss Tripp suppressed a vague sigh. "I know a poor, forlorn princess who
is obliged to go out all alone into the cold world to seek her fortune,"
she said. "And I'm very much afraid she won't find it."

"Is she young and be-utiful?" asked Doris, with wide-eyed attention.
"An' has she got a spangled dress?"

"Dot a spangled dwess?" cooed Richard, like a cheerful little echo.

"No; she's forced to wear a plain black dress in her wanderings, and she
isn't beautiful at all. She's not very young either, and ugly lines are
beginning to creep about her eyes and across her forehead; and one day,
not long ago she found--what do you suppose?"

"A bag of gold?"

"A bag o' dold?" echoed Richard.

"No, dear; this poor, forlorn little princess found three silver hairs
growing among the brown ones just over her ear."

Miss Tripp's sweet, drawling voice trembled slightly as she went on with
her little fable. "The princess felt so badly that she shed bitter
tears when she saw the glitter of those three silver hairs, because she
knew that she could never, never catch up with youth any more."

"What youth--the fairy prince?" Doris wanted to know.

And Richard smiled seraphically as he trilled, "Oh, dood! It was 'e
pwince!"

"No, darlings; there isn't any prince at all in this story. There was
one--once--away back in the beginning of it; but he--went away--to a far
country, and he--never came back."

"Did the princess cry?"

"Did her cwy?"

"Yes; she cried till all the brightness went out of her pretty eyes.
Then she stopped crying and laughed instead, because--Oh; because crying
didn't help a bit."

"You've been crying, Aunty Evelyn!" said Doris suddenly. "Why-e! your
eyes are all teary now!"

"I've got a cold; I'm afraid," prevaricated Miss Tripp.

"I don't like that story," objected Doris. "Unless----" and her eyes
brightened, "the prince came back. Let him come back, Aunty Evelyn;
please let him; it'll spoil the story if he doesn't."

Miss Tripp drew a deep breath. "I--wish he might come back," she said;
"but I--I'm afraid he never will, dear; and the poor little princess
will have to go on alone till----"

"Till what?" demanded Doris indignantly. "I c'n tell a better story 'an
that," she added.

"Tell it, dear."

"Well; the princess went out in her horrid ol' black clo'es an'
travelled an' travelled, _an' travelled_ till she was mos' tired out,
an' everywhere she went she asked 'where is my prince?' An' at first all
the people said, 'We don't know where any prince is.' But the princess
jus' made up her mind she _would_ find him; an'--an' bimeby she
did--jus' as easy! He was right there all the time; only he was
enchanted by an awful bad fairy so she couldn't see him, an' so----"

Doris paused to draw breath, and Richard gravely took up the tale,
nodding the while like a gay little china mandarin. "He was 'chanted an'
she was 'chanted, an' they bof was 'chanted, an'----"

"Be quiet, Buddy, an' let me tell," interrupted Doris. "She did find
him! Course she found him, an'--an' her horrid ol' clo'es was changed to
a lovely wedding dress, an'--an'--that's the end of it!"

Miss Tripp laughed. She felt unreasonably cheered by this optimistic
finale to her sad little story--which had no ending.

"That would be the beginning of a very cheerful story," she said. "Now
Aunty Evelyn must get some breakfast and start out into the cold world."

"Oh! we want you to stay!"

"I'm coming back, dears; yes, indeed; I'll be back this very evening,
and then I'll tell you the loveliest story in the world, all about a
little goose-girl."

It was a very cold world indeed into which Miss Tripp fared forth that
winter morning. But Elizabeth's friendly protests were vain.

"I really must go, dear," Evelyn told her with a firmness quite foreign
to her fashionable self. "You don't know--you can't guess how necessary
it is for me to find some way of earning money. Mother----" her voice
shook a little--"isn't at all well; she never was very strong, and our
losses have quite--Why, Elizabeth, you would hardly know mother; she's
so changed. She just sits by the window, and--looks out; I can't seem to
rouse her to--to do anything."

Remembering the frail, artificial old lady, with her elaborate toilets
and her perpetual aura of rice-powder and sachet, Elizabeth thought this
exceedingly probable. "Was it so very bad, Evelyn?" she asked
hesitatingly. "You know you only told me----"

"We lost nearly everything when the Back-Bay Security Company failed
last fall," said Evelyn quietly. "I--couldn't seem to believe it at
first. Of course we were never rich; but we had always lived very
comfortably--you know how pleasant it was in our little apartment,
Elizabeth, with our good Marie to do everything for us, and all our
friends."

Miss Tripp touched her eyelids delicately with her little lace-edged
handkerchief. "I--mustn't cry," she said. "It makes one look so like a
fright, and I----. Elizabeth, do you suppose I could get a place
to--teach? I do love children so, and they always seem to like me."

"What would you teach?" Elizabeth asked, anxiously sympathetic, yet
knowing a little more of the ways of the educational world than did Miss
Tripp. "You know, Evelyn,--at least I am told--that nearly every teacher
has to be a specialist now. You might study kindergartening," she added
more hopefully.

Miss Tripp shook her head. "No; I couldn't do that. It would take too
long, and we should have plenty of time to--starve, I fancy, before----.
But what nonsense I'm talking! I must start out this minute; I have an
appointment at Whitcher's Teacher's Agency this morning. They told me
yesterday that a man--a school principal--was coming there to hire a
primary teacher. I'm sure I could do that; don't you think I could,
Elizabeth?--Just to teach the children how to read and write and do
little sums on their slates. I shall say I can anyway."

She waved her hand to her friend as she went bravely away down the snowy
street, and Elizabeth turned back to her children, feeling a new and
unfamiliar sense of gratitude for the warm home nest, with its three
turbulent birdlings.

It was Saturday, and the children could not be dispatched to
kindergarten as on other mornings of the week. It was also baking-day,
and bread and rolls were in slow process of rising to their appointed
size in the chilly kitchen. Elizabeth was frugally looking over the
contents of her larder with a view to a "picked-up" luncheon, when she
heard a small yet distinct knock on the back door.

She opened it upon Robbie Stanford, dancing with impatience on the snowy
step.

"Good-morning, Mrs. Brewster," he began with an ingratiating smile,
"I've come over to play with Carroll an' Doris. I c'n stay two hours 'n'
maybe three, 'nless my mother comes from down-town before that."

"Oh; isn't your mother at home?" asked Elizabeth, with a dubious glance
at the red-cheeked, black-eyed young person, who was already edging
smilingly toward the closed door of the dining-room. She had entertained
Master Stanford before in the absence of his parents and had learned to
dread the occasions of his visits.

"No, ma'am," said Robbie politely. "My mother's gone to have her teeth
fixed. The' was a teeny hole in one of 'em, an' the hole ached. Did you
ever have holes in your teeth, Mrs. Brewster?"

"Why, yes; I suppose I have," assented Elizabeth doubtfully. "Now,
Robbie; I want you to promise me that you will be a good boy this
morning, and not get into any mischief; I'm going to be very, very busy,
and----"

"I'll be good," responded the young person cheerfully. "I'll be gooder
'an anything. Where's Carroll?"

"He's in the other room; but--wait a minute, dear. You remember the last
time you played with Carroll you----"

"Yes, 'm; I 'member. We made an ocean in the bath-room, an' you
said----"

"Doris took a bad cold from getting so wet, and Richard almost had the
croup."

"I won't do it again," promised the visitor, digging his toes rather
shamefacedly under a loosened edge of the linoleum. "I'll jus' look at
pictures, 'n'--'n' things like that."

"Very well; I'll take you in where the children are playing. Carroll
will be glad to see you; I'm sure," she added, feeling that she had
been rather ungracious to her friend's child.

The three young Brewsters greeted their neighbour with a whoop of joy.
Master Stanford was blessed with a pleasantly inventive turn of mind,
and one could generally depend upon a break in the monotony of the home
circle when he appeared.

"What'll we do?" inquired Doris, prancing gaily around the visitor, who
gazed about him at the assembled Brewster toys with a somewhat ennuied
expression on his small, serious countenance.

"Aw--I don't know; play with dolls, I guess. I promised I'd be good."

"We might play Indian," suggested Carroll hopefully. "Mother lets us
take the couch-cover for a tent."

The visitor considered this proposition in Napoleonic silence. "Have
your dolls got real hair?" he inquired darkly of Doris.

"Uh-huh; every one of 'em 's got real hair. My new doll 'at I got
Christmas 's got lovely long curls. I don't play with her ev'ry day,
'cause mother's 'fraid I'll break her."

"Go an' get her; get all yer dolls."

"Oh--we don't want t' play with dolls," objected Carroll. "Let's build
a depot an' have trains a-smashin' int' each other."

"Nope; we'll play Indian," the visitor said firmly. "I'll show you how."

Under his able generalship the sitting-room was presently transformed
into the semblance of a rolling prairie, with a settler's wagon in the
midst of the landscape in which travelled Richard as husband and father,
driving a span of wicker chairs, while Doris, smothering a fine family
of long-haired dolls, sat behind.

Elizabeth who paused to glance in at this stage of the proceedings was
gratified by a sight of the four happy, earnest little faces, and the
apparent innocuousness of the proceedings.

"We're havin' lots of fun, mother; we're playin' wagon!" Doris
explained. "These are all my children; an' we're goin' west to live."

"Det-ap!" vociferated Richard, pulling manfully at the red lines
decorated with bells, with which he restrained his restive steeds.

"Whoa!" and he applied the gad with spirit. "Dey's doin' fast, mudzer,"
he shouted.

"That's a nice play!" chanted Elizabeth; "only be careful of the whip,
dear." Then she hurried up-stairs intent upon restoring immaculate order
to the upper part of her house before luncheon.




X


The better part of an hour had passed before she remembered the children
again; then a sound of terrific tumult from below gave wings to her
feet.

The scene which met her astonished eyes was one of blood and carnage.
The two boys, their faces horribly streaked with scarlet and yellow,
their hair stuck full of feathers, had evidently fallen upon the
peaceful settlers in their progress across the western plains, and were
engaged in plunder and rapine; Richard, bound hand and foot with his
scarlet lines, howled with abject terror, while Doris, wild-eyed and
furious, fought for the protection of her family of dolls.

"You shan't touch my best doll; you horrid boy!" she shrieked. "I'll
tell my--mother! I'll tell--my----"

"Give 'er here! I'm a big Injun an' I'm goin' to scalp every one of your
children!" yelled Robbie Stanford. "Here you, Carroll! what you doin'?
There's another kid a-hidin' under the chair--I mean the wagon! She'll
scalp easy!"

"Why, children! What are you doing? Carroll, Robert! Stop this instant!"

"We're playing Indian!" panted Carroll, pausing to eye his mother
disgustedly through his war-paint. "Doris oughtn't to have yelled so,
an' Buddy's nothin' but a bawl-baby. We didn't hurt him a single bit."

"Jus' see what they did to my dolls!" wailed Doris. "Tore the hair off
of ev'ry one of 'em!"

"Why, boys! I don't see what you were thinking of to spoil Doris' pretty
dolls!"

"We was only scalpin' her children," volunteered the instigator of the
crime, with a cheerful grin. "I c'n stick on the hair again, jus' as
easy as anythin', if you'll give me the glue. I scalped our baby's doll
an' my mother she stuck the hair on again with glue. 'Tain't hard to
stick it on; an' we only broke one. We wouldn't 'ave done that, if
Doris----"

"What is that stuff on your faces?" demanded Elizabeth sternly, as she
collected the parti-coloured scalps from among the debris on the floor.

"It's only war-paint, mother," explained Carroll. "Indians always put it
on their faces; don't you remember the Indians in my Indian book? We
made it out of jam an' egg. Celia gave it to us; we got the feathers out
the duster."

Elizabeth heaved a great sigh. "Come, and I'll wash your faces," she
said; "then I think perhaps Robbie had better----"

"No, ma'am;" said Master Stanford firmly; "it isn't two hours yet. I c'n
stay till the whistles blow, an' if you invite me I guess I c'n stay to
lunch."

"I'm not going to invite you," slipped off Elizabeth's exasperated
tongue. "I want you to go straight home, as soon as I've washed you and
made you look respectable."

The youngster's under lip trembled. Two big tears welled up in his black
eyes. "I--didn't--mean to--be--naughty!" he quavered. "I don't care if
you--whip--me; but I don't want--t' go home. Annie's--cross. She
slapped--me--twice this morning! She says I'm the plague o' her life."

Annie was the Stanford's cook and possessed of unlimited authority
which she frequently abused, Elizabeth knew. "Where is Livingstone?" she
asked in a milder voice, as she removed the traces of her best raspberry
jam from the visitor's round face.

"Mother took baby with her; she's going to leave him at gran'ma's house
till she comes home. She said I couldn't go, 'cause gran'ma--she's--kind
of nervous when I'm there."

"Well, dear; you can stay and have lunch with the children; only----"

"Are you goin' to whip me? I shan't cry if you do."

"My mother doesn't whip anybody," said Carroll superbly; "she's too kind
an' good!"

"So's my mother kind an' good! I double dare you to say she isn't!"

"Come, children; you mustn't get to quarrelling. Of course your dear
mother is kind and good, Robbie. And you ought to try to be so kind and
good and obedient that she won't ever feel that you ought to be
whipped."

Master Stanford's black eyes opened very wide at this difficult
proposition. "Aw--I don't know 'bout that," he said diffidently. "I
guess my mother'd jus' 's soon I'd be bad some o' the time. She says
she's glad I ain't a milk an' water child like Carroll. An' my papa, he
says----"

"You may both sit right down on this sofa," interrupted Elizabeth
hastily, "and look at these two books till I call you to luncheon. If
you get up once, Robbie, I shall be obliged to send you home to Annie."

"The idea of Marian saying such a thing about my Carroll," she thought
unforgivingly, as she set forth bananas and small sweet crackers for the
children's dessert. "A milk and water child, indeed; but of course, with
a boy like Robbie to deal with, she has to say something. I'm sorry for
those two children of hers."

Robbie Stanford stayed till his mother came after him at four o'clock,
and Elizabeth laying aside all other occupations supervised her small
kindergarten with all the tried patience and kindness of which she was
mistress.

Mrs. Stanford was voluble with apologies as she invested her son with
his coat and mittens. "I told Annie to have Robbie ask Carroll over for
luncheon," she said, "and I left the play-room all ready for them. I
assure you, Elizabeth, I had no notion of inflicting my child upon
you--when you have company, too; I'm really ashamed of Robbie."

"Yes, mother," interrupted that young person, "but Annie got mad jus'
'cause I made little round holes in one o' her ol' pies with my finger.
I only wanted to see the juice come out. 'N'--'n she slapped me, 'n'
tol' me to get out o' her way, or she'd pack her clo'es an' leave. So
I----"

Mrs. Stanford's pretty young face flushed with mortification. "I can see
that you are thinking me very careless to leave Robbie with a
bad-tempered servant," she said, "but Annie is usually so good with the
children, and I had to go. I had really neglected my teeth till one of
them ached."

"It was no trouble," dissembled Elizabeth mildly, "and really I should
much prefer to have Robbie here than to have Carroll at your house when
you are away. I should tremble for the results to your property. Of
course my Carroll alone is almost as innocuous as milk and water, but
with Robert to bring out his stronger qualities one can never safely
predict what will happen."

Mrs. Stanford looked up in sudden consternation, and meeting Elizabeth's
smiling glance she laughed and shrugged her shoulders. "Well," she said,
"I'm glad, Betty, if you aren't actually worn out mothering my
black-eyed lamb. Another time I'll cope with all three of yours, if
you'll let me." Then she stooped and kissed Elizabeth in her usual
half-mocking way. "Thank you, little neighbour," she murmured; "you make
me ashamed of myself, whenever I see you. You are so much better than
I."

When Evelyn Tripp returned that afternoon in the gloom of the gathering
twilight she stood for a few minutes in the glow of Elizabeth's cheerful
fireside, slowly drawing off her gloves. She appeared pallid and worn in
the half light, and Elizabeth caught herself wondering if she had
lunched.

"Yes, dear," Miss Tripp informed her absent-mindedly; "I had a cup of
tea--I think it was tea--and a roll. I wasn't hungry after my interview
with the South Popham school principal."

"Oh, then you saw him? Did you--Was he----"

Evelyn laughed a little drearily. "No, dear," she sighed, shaking her
head; "nothing came of it. I suppose I ought not to have expected it.
Professor Meeker wanted someone with experience, and--and--a younger
person, he said. I didn't realise that I looked really old, Betty. I
thought----"

"You don't look old, Evelyn," denied Elizabeth warm-heartedly. "What was
the man thinking of?"

"Apparently of a red-cheeked, nursery-maid sort of a person who had
taught in the public schools. I saw him afterwards holding forth on the
needs of the Popham Institute to a young woman with a high pompadour and
wearing a red shirt-waist, a string of blue beads and a large glittering
watch-chain--the kind with a slide. I think she must have been what he
was looking for. Anyway the Whitcher people told me he had engaged her."

Elizabeth gazed at her friend, a sort of aching sympathy withholding her
from speech.

"After that," pursued Miss Tripp, "I went to another agency, and they
asked me if I would like to travel abroad with a lady and her two
daughters. I thought I should like it very much indeed--I could engage
Cousin Sophia to stay with mother, you know--so I took the car out to
Chelsea to see a Mrs. Potwin-Pilcher, and found what she was looking for
was really an experienced lady's-maid and courier rolled into one, and
that she expected 'willing services in exchange for expenses.' I told
her I couldn't think of such a thing. Then Mrs. Potwin-Pilcher rose
up--she was a big, raw-boned person glittering with diamonds--and
informed me that she had fifty-nine applications for the position--I was
the sixtieth, it seems--and that she was sure I would be unable to
perform the duties of the position. After that I came directly home.
Monday I shall----"

Miss Tripp paused apparently to remove her veil; when she finished her
sentence it was in a steady, matter-of-fact voice. "I shall go to see an
old friend of mother's--a Mrs. Baxter Crownenshield--I think you've
heard me speak of her, Elizabeth. She and mother were very intimate once
upon a time, and Mr. Crownenshield owed his success in business to my
father. I'm going to--ask her advice. Now I think I'll go up-stairs and
take off these damp skirts, and after that I'll come down and help you
mend stockings, or anything----. Only let me do something, Elizabeth!"

There was almost a wail in the tired voice, and Elizabeth, wiser than
she knew, pulled out her mending-basket with a smile. "I'm almost
ashamed to confess that I need some help badly," she said. "I hope you
won't be horrified at the condition of Carroll's stockings."

Miss Tripp was quite her charming self again when she reappeared clad in
a trailing gown of rosy lavender. She told the children the lively tale
of the goose-girl, which she had promised them in the morning, choosing
the while the stockings with the most discouraging holes out of
Elizabeth's basket and protesting that she loved--yes, positively
adored--darning stockings. But she finished her self-imposed task at an
early hour, and after playing two or three tuneful little chansonettes
on Elizabeth's hard-worked and rather shabby piano, excused herself.

"I must write to mother," she said smilingly. "She quite depends on me
for a bright chatty letter every day, and I've so much to tell her of
to-day's amusing adventures. Really, do you know that Potwin-Pilcher
person ought to go into a novel. She was positively unique!"

Elizabeth was silent for some moments after the sound of Evelyn's light
foot had passed from the stair. Then she turned a brooding face upon her
husband. "I am so sorry for poor Evelyn," she said.

Sam Brewster stirred uneasily in his chair. "So you said before she
arrived," he observed. "I don't see anything about the fair Evelyn to
call forth expressions of pity. She looks remarkably prosperous to me."

"Yes; but you don't see everything, Sam. That gown is one she has had
for years, and it has been cleaned and made over and over again."

"Well; so have most of yours, my dear, and you don't ask for sympathy on
that account."

"Sam, dear, they haven't any money. Can't you understand? They lost
everything when the Back-Bay Security Company failed. Evelyn doesn't
know what to do. There is her mother to take care of and you know how
helpless she is. I don't suppose she ever really did anything in her
whole life."

"It's a problem; I'll admit," agreed her husband, scowling over his
unread paper; "but I don't see what we are going to do about it."

"That's the worst of it, Sam; we really can't do anything, and I'm
afraid other people won't. I had thought--if nothing else turned
up--that perhaps Mrs. Tripp could be induced to go into a home. One of
those nice, refined places where one has to pay to be admitted, and then
Evelyn--might----"

She paused and looked anxiously at her husband. "We might let her stay
here, Sam; and----"

He shook his head. "You're the most self-sacrificing of darlings when it
comes to helping your friends," he said; "but I couldn't stand for that,
Betty. Two weeks is about my limit, I'm afraid, when it comes to
entertaining angels unawares. I'm willing to admit the unique character
of Miss Tripp, and to vote her a most agreeable guest, and all that.
But----"

Elizabeth gazed at her husband understandingly. "I know, Sam," she said,
"and I think so too. But----"




XI


"Mother, de-ar, can we go out to play in the back yard? I c'n put on my
overshoes an' leggins, an' I c'n help Doris too, if you're busy."

Elizabeth looked up from her task of cutting out rompers for her baby
with a preoccupied sigh. "You have a little cold now, Carroll," she said
doubtfully, "and if you should get wet in the snow----"

"We won't get wet, mother. I pr-romise!"

"Very well, dear; now remember!"

It was cold and clear and there seemed very little danger of dampness as
the two children ran out with a whoop of joy into the side yard where
the snow-laden evergreens partially screened the Stanford's house from
view. Robbie Stanford's round, solemn face was staring at them wistfully
from a second-story window as they dashed ecstatically into a snow bank,
to emerge white with the sparkling drift.

"Hello, Rob; come on out!" called Carroll.

"I can't," replied Master Stanford, raising the window cautiously.

"Why?"

"Oh, nothin' much; but I guess I'd better stay up here till mother comes
home."

"Who said so?"

"That horrid ol' Annie. I was down in the kitchen an' I fired only one
clothespin at her, jus' for fun, an' it hit her in the eye; she got mad
an' chased me up here an' locked the door."

"Where's your mother?"

"She's gone down town. She said she'd bring me some candy if I was good.
Bu' 'f I ain't good she'll take the paddle to me. Say, Carroll!"

"What?"

"Why don't you an' Doris make a skatin' rink?"

"A--what?"

"A skatin' rink. It's great. I know how; I saw a boy makin' one in his
back yard. It's awful easy. You just run the hose----"

Master Stanford paused in the course of his exposition to cast a
cautious glance behind him. "I guess I'm takin' cold all right," he went
on feelingly. "I hope I am. Then maybe I'll have the croup an' be awful
sick. I guess they'd all be sorry, then. Say, Carroll, do you see Annie
anywheres?"

Carroll reconnoitred cautiously. "She's hangin' up clo'es in the back
yard," he informed the young person aloft.

"If I c'd get out of here, I'd show you how to make that skatin' rink.
We c'd make it easy, an' have it ready to skate on b' to-morrow."

"We haven't any skates," objected Doris. "B'sides," with a toss of her
scarlet hood, "I don't believe you know how to make a skatin' rink."

"I don't know how? Well, I just bet I do!" exclaimed the prisoner
dangling his small person far over the window-sill, while Doris screamed
an excited protest. "Pooh! I ain't afraid of fallin' out--ain't afraid
of nothin'; I'll bet I c'd jump out this window. I guess I'd have to if
the house took on fire. Say, if this house should ketch on fire,
Carroll, your house would burn up too. I've got some matches in my
pocket," he added darkly; "if I should take a notion I c'd burn up
everythin' on this block, an' maybe the whole town. I'll bet I c'd do
it."

"How do you make a skatin' rink?" inquired Carroll, with an anxious
glance at his own cosy home, which suddenly appeared very dear to him in
view of a general conflagration.

Master Stanford reflected frowningly. "Is our cellar window open?"

"Nope; it's shut."

"Well, first you'll have to dig out a big square place, an' pile snow
all round the edge. I'll get out o' here somehow b' the time you get
that done; then we'll run it full of water. 'N after that it'll freeze."

"Where c'd we get the water?" inquired Doris, with an unbelieving sniff.
"Mother wouldn't let us get it in the kitchen."

"Out of our hose pipe," said Master Stanford grandly. The Brewsters
owned no hose, and this fact was a perpetual source of grievance in
summer time. "I'll run her right under the hedge into your yard,"
continued the proprietor of the hose generously, "an' let her swizzle!"

"Oh--my!" gasped the small Brewsters in excited chorus.

"Well; are you goin' to do it?"

Carroll shook his head. "We promised mother we wouldn't get wet," he
observed with an air of superior virtue. "'N we always mind our mother,
don't we, Doris?--at least I do. Doris doesn't always. But she's a
girl."

Master Stanford cackled with derision. "Aw--you're a terrible good boy,
aren't you?" he crowed. "My father says you're a reg'lar prig. He says
he'd larrup me, if I was always braggin' 'bout bein' so good the way you
do. He says I haven't anythin' to brag of. Course if you're 'fraid of
your mother----"

Doris pirouetted off across the yard with a flirt of her short skirts.
"We aren't afraid, smarty!" she cried, her pink chin high in air. "An'
we aren't any gooder an' you are, Robbie Stanford--at least I'm not; so
there! Come on, Carroll; let's make a skatin' rink."

Hard labour with two small snow-shovels produced the semblance of a
square enclosure bounded by uneven ridges of soft snow. Mrs. Brewster
glancing out of the window at her darlings was pleased to observe their
red cheeks and the joyous enthusiasm with which they were pursuing their
self-imposed task.

"Dear little souls!" she thought, "how little it takes to keep them
happy." Then she became absorbingly busy at her machine in the task of
double-stitching the seams of the baby's rompers.

In the meanwhile young Robert Stanford had been released from durance
vile by the kind-hearted Annie, whose warm Irish heart had reproached
her for her fit of bad temper.

"Sure an' yez didn't mean to hit me eye; did yez, now?" she inquired, as
she poked her broad red face into the room.

"Naw; course I didn't," the incarcerated one ingratiatingly assured her.
"Say, Annie, c'n I have four cookies?"

"Oh, go 'way wid yez; four's too many entirely; I'll give ye wan wid a
clip over yer ear."

"No; honest, I ain't goin' to eat 'em all. I want one for Carroll an'
Doris an' two for me."

"An' it's the generous young one he is entirely," laughed Annie. "Come
on down an' I'll put yer coat on, and mind yez don't get into no more
mischief or I'll be afther tellin' yer mother; thin you'll get a taste
of the paddle."

"I'll give you a whole lot of my candy, Annie," said the boy earnestly,
"if you'll tell mother I was awful good. Will you?"

"'Awful' it was, all right," giggled Annie; "but if I was to say you was
good I'd have to burn in purgatory for me sins. I'll say nothin'."

"Where's purgatory, Annie?" inquired the young person after a thoughtful
silence.

"It's a warrum place entirely where you'll find yourself some day, I'm
thinkin', if yez meddle too much in my kitchen," said Annie darkly.
"Here's your cookies; now g'wan wid yez an' don't ye be afther botherin'
me no more."

It was a matter which required concerted effort to uncoil the heavy
hose, attach it to the water pipe and lift the nozzle to the level of
the window; but it was accomplished at last through the united efforts
of the two boys ably assisted by Doris, who was all excitement at the
prospect of sliding on a real ice pond in her own yard.

"I guess our daddy'll be s'prised when he sees us goin' around like
lightnin' on reg'lar ice," she said. "He's got skates, our daddy has,
an' he c'n skate like everythin', our daddy can."

"Pooh! that's nothin'," retorted Master Stanford; "my father c'n beat
your father all holler. He's a whole lot taller 'n your father, an' our
house is higher 'n yours, too."

"It's p'liter not to brag," said Doris, ignoring her own deflections
from civility. "Oh, my, look at the water spurting out of that teeny,
weeny hole! It's just like a fountain."

The two boys were laboriously dragging the heavy hose across the yard,
and in the process other holes appeared through which the water hissed
and gurgled with increasing force.

"I don't care," the proprietor of the hose assured them loftily. "It's
an' ol' thing anyway. We're goin' to have a great long new one nex'
summer; then maybe we'll give you this one. My father's so rich he don't
care. Now I'll poke the nozzle through the hedge an' let her swizzle.
Get out o' the way, Doris; I don't care if I do get wet."

Ten minutes later Mrs. Stanford, rosy and cheerful, after her brisk walk
in the winter sunshine, appeared on the scene. "What are you doing,
kiddies?" she inquired pleasantly; then in a more doubtful tone. "What
_are_ you doing? Why, Robbie!"

"We're jus' makin' a skatin' rink, and the ol' hose leaks like thunder,"
explained her son, employing a simile he had heard his father use the
day before, and which he had considered particularly manly and
admirable.

"Robert! you are soaked to the skin--and so is Carroll. Go right into
the house. What do you mean by being so naughty?"

"You didn't say I couldn't take the hose," sulked the boy, surveying his
parent from under lowering brows.

"Go in the house, sir; I'll attend to you presently," said his mother
sternly.

"Oh, please; I'll be good! I didn't--mean--to," whined the child.
"Carroll an' Doris, they wanted a skatin' rink, an' I----"

Mrs. Stanford stooped to turn off the water. "Go home at once," she said
to her neighbour's children. "And you, Robert, go up to the bathroom and
take off your wet clothing." Her pretty young face was flushed with
anger. "I never saw such dreadful children!" she murmured wrathfully.

"My, but she's mad!" whispered Carroll, looking after the slim, erect
figure, "it wasn't our fault their ol' hose leaked."

"I guess our mother'll be some mad, too," said Doris doubtfully; "that
water spurted all over my leggins; an' now I guess it's freezing."

The two walked slowly across the yard, ploughing through the rapidly
congealing slush, which was the disappointing outcome of two hours of
hard work.

"I don't like Robbie Stanford one bit," said Doris disgustedly. "He's
always getting us into mischief."

"I said we ought not to get wet," Carroll reminded her eagerly. "Don't
you remember I did? An' you said----"

"I don't like you either," pursued the little girl stonily. "I don't
b'lieve I like boys _a'tall_; so there!"

"I'm all wet," she announced to her mother, "an' Carroll's wetter 'an I
am; an'--we--we're--both--c-cold!"

It was characteristic of Elizabeth that she thoroughly dried and warmed
the children before asking any questions. Then despite their dismayed
protests she put them both to bed. "You disobeyed me," she told them,
"and now you'll have to stay in your beds till to-morrow morning. I'll
explain to your father. Of course he'll be disappointed not to see you
at dinner; but I can't help that."


A period of depressing silence followed during which both children
caught the distant sounds of passionate and prolonged crying from the
neighbouring house.

"It's Robbie," said Carroll in an awed whisper; "his mother's whipping
him with that butter-paddle o' hers. She does that when he's awful bad."

"I'd bite her!" murmured Doris between her clenched teeth.
"I'd--I'd--scratch her!" She burst into excited tears. "I'd just--hate
my mother if she--if she hurt me like that!"

"Pooh! Rob don't care so very much," Carroll assured her; "he says he
hollers jus' as loud as he can so his mother'll stop quicker. I s'pose,"
he continued after a thoughtful pause, "Robbie'll be up to dinner jus'
the same, an' we'll be here eatin' bread and milk."




XII


Elizabeth's promised explanation to the father of the culprits above
stairs led to a spirited discussion between the husband and wife, after
Miss Tripp had retired to her apartment.

"Poor little kids," Sam Brewster said whimsically. "I believe I'm glad
I'm not your child, Betty,--I mean, of course, that I'm glad I'm your
husband," he amended quickly, as her unsmiling eyes reproached him.
"Don't you think you were a little hard on them, though?"

"Hard on them?" she echoed indignantly. "You're much more severe with
the children than I am, Sam,--when you're at home. You know you are."

He smoked thoughtfully for a minute or two before replying. "Look here,
Betty," he said at last, "you're right in a way. I'm not half so patient
as you are, I'll admit. But I wonder if we don't all miss the mark when
it comes to disciplining children?--Wait--just a minute before you
answer. I've been thinking a whole lot about this business of home rule
since we--er--discussed it the other day, and I've come to the
conclusion that the only thing to do is to let universal law take its
course with them. They are human beings, my dear, and they've got to
come up against the law in its broader sense sooner or later. Let 'em
begin right now."

She was eyeing him pityingly. "And by that you mean----?"

"I mean," he went on, warming to his subject, "that you've got to teach
a child what it means to reap what he sows. If Richard wants to put his
finger on the stove and investigate the phenomenon of calorics, let him.
He won't do it twice."

"And if he wants to paddle in the aquarium of a cold winter day,
you'd----"

"Let him--of course," said Sam stoutly. "He'd feel uncomfortably damp
and chilly after a while."

"Yes; and have the croup or pneumonia that same night."

"You're hopelessly old-fashioned, Betty," he laughed; "you shouldn't
introduce the croup or pneumonia idea into the infant consciousness.
But seriously, my dear, I believe I'm right. If you don't teach the
children to recognise the relation between cause and effect now--so that
it becomes second nature to them, how are they going to understand the
subject when they're put up against it later? You'll find the mother
bird and the mother bear, and, in fact, all the animal creation
carefully instilling the idea of cause and effect into their offspring
from the very beginning; while human parents are as constantly
protecting their children from the effects of the causes which the
children ignorantly set in motion. In other words we persist in undoing
the work of old 'Mother Be-done-by-as-you-did.' It's a blunder, in my
opinion. But of course, I'm a mere man and my ideas are not entitled to
much consideration."

Elizabeth gazed at her husband with open admiration. "Of course they are
entitled to consideration," she said decidedly. "And I believe what you
have said--with reservations. Suppose Baby Dick, for example, should
lean out of the window too far--a second-story window, I mean--and I
should see him doing it and feel pretty certain he was going to pitch
out head first and cripple himself for life. Do you think I ought to
stand still and let the law of gravitation teach him not to do it a
second time?"

Sam Brewster laid down his pipe and gazed steadfastly at his wife. She
was looking extremely young and bewitchingly pretty as she leaned toward
him, her cheeks pink, her brown eyes glowing with earnestness in which
he thought he detected a spark of her old girlish mischief.

"'And still the wonder grew,'" he quoted solemnly, "'that one small head
could carry all she knew!'"

"Please answer me, Sam," she insisted.

"Well, of course you've got me. You'd have to haul in the young person
by the heels, and----"

"And what, exactly, if you please?"

"You might illustrate--with some fragile, concrete object, like an
egg--as to what would happen if he fell out," said Sam, with exceeding
mildness, "and----"

"In other words," she interrupted him triumphantly, "I ought to
interfere _some_ of the time between cause and effect. The question
being when to interfere and when not to."

"Exactly!" he said, planting an irrelevant kiss on the pink cheek
nearest him. "And that, my dear Betty, is your job--and, of course,
mine, when I'm here. But I still hold that the natural penalty is
best--when it's convincingly painful yet entirely innocuous."

"What is the natural penalty for eating cookies out of the box when
you've been forbidden to do it?" she wanted to know.

He chuckled as certain memories of his boyhood came back to him. "My
word!" he said, "I wish I could ever taste anything half as good as the
cookies out of Aunt Julia Brewster's crock--it was a cooky-crock in
those days. Of course I was forbidden to go to it without permission,
and also of course I did it."

"What happened?" she demanded, the mischief growing bolder in her eyes.

He reflected. "Aunt Julia wouldn't let me have any at table on several
occasions; but I--er--regret to say that I was not duly impressed by the
punishment. A cooky--one cooky--decorously taken from a china plate at
the conclusion of a meal did not, in my youthful opinion, court
comparison with six--eight--ten cookies, moist and spicy from their
seclusion and eaten with an uncloyed appetite. Let's--er--change the
subject for the moment, my dear. Of course I'm right, but I appear to be
hopelessly treed. Tell me how our friend Miss Tripp is getting on. She
appeared somewhat depressed at dinner-time, and I didn't like to ask for
information for fear there was nothing doing."

Elizabeth sighed sympathetically. "Evelyn had a dreadfully disappointing
day," she told him. "But"--her eyes dancing again--"she met Mr. Hickey
down town, and he actually invited her to lunch with him."

Sam whistled softly. "Hickey is progressing," he said approvingly. "Did
he take her to the business men's lunchroom? Hickey has conscientious
scruples against going anywhere else. I asked him into Colby's one day
and he declined on the ground of his duty as a constant patron of the B.
M. L. He said his table was reserved for him there by the season,
and----"

"How absurd!" laughed Elizabeth. "But, I was going to tell you; Evelyn
remembered another engagement, and so----" she stopped short, her eyes
growing luminous. "Sam," she said suddenly, "I don't know what to think
of Evelyn; she really didn't have any lunch at all; she said so when she
came. I made her a cup of tea; she looked so worn and tired. I wonder if
Mr. Hickey could have said anything, or---- What do you think, Sam?"

Sam yawned behind his paper. "I'm really too sleepy to give to the
question the profound attention which it merits; but to-morrow when my
intellect is fresh and keen, I'll endeavour to----"

"You mean you don't care."

"Suppose I did care, my very dear Betty; suppose my whole career
depended upon what Hickey said--or didn't say; what could I do about
it?"

"I'm sure I don't know, Sam," said his Elizabeth meekly. But her eyes
were still full of speculative curiosity as she went up-stairs.




XIII


The facts in the case, if known to Elizabeth, might have served to throw
a clearer light upon Miss Tripp's somewhat unsatisfactory account of her
day in the city. In the first place, the weather which had dawned bright
and sunny had suddenly turned nasty, with a keen wind driving large,
moist snowflakes into the faces of pedestrians. Evelyn had found herself
without an umbrella and wearing her best hat and gown walking the long
block which intervened between her destination and the car from which
she had alighted.

Mrs. Baxter Crownenshield was known to the wide circle of her
acquaintances as a large, funereal person, invariably clothed in black,
and as perpetually exuding a copious and turgid sympathy upon all who
came in contact with her, somewhat after the manner of a cuttle-fish.
She lived in a mansion, large and dull like herself, on Beacon Street,
where she occupied herself exclusively with those dubious activities
euphemistically called "charitable work."

When Miss Evelyn Tripp was shown into Mrs. Crownenshield's chilly
reception-room that morning in February, she shivered a little in her
damp clothes as she sat down on a slippery chair and endeavoured vaguely
to forecast the coming interview. Her mother had suggested Mrs.
Crownenshield as a sort of _dernier resort_, with a fretful reminiscence
of the days when the Baxter Crownenshields were poor and lived in a
third-story back room of a fifth-rate boarding-house.

"I used to give Jane Crownenshield my gowns after I had worn them a
season," Mrs. Tripp said querulously; "and glad enough she was to get
them. As for her husband, he was not much of a man. Your father used to
say Crownenshield couldn't be trusted to earn his salt at honest work in
a counting-room; but when the war broke out he borrowed five hundred
dollars of your father, and bought and sold army stores. After that he
grew rich somehow, and we grew poor. But Jane Crownenshield ought to
remember that she owes everything she has to-day to your father."

Miss Tripp perched uncomfortably on the unyielding surface of the
inhospitable hair-cloth chair she had chosen, gazed attentively at the
portrait of the late lamented Crownenshield which hung over the
mantle-piece, and at the bronze representation of the same large and
self-satisfied countenance smirking at her from a shadowy corner, while
she repeated nervously the opening words with which she hoped to engage
his widow's friendly interest. It seemed an interminable period before
she heard the slow and ponderous footfall which presaged the majestic
approach of Mrs. Crownenshield; as a matter of fact, it was almost
exactly half an hour by the dismal-voiced black marble clock surmounted
by an urn.

Miss Tripp arose upon the entrance of the large lady in black and held
out her hand with a feeble effort after the sprightly ease of her old
society manner. "Good morning, Mrs. Crownenshield," she began, in a
voice which in spite of herself sounded weak and timid in the gloomy,
high-ceiled room. "I do hope I haven't interrupted any important
labour--I know you are always so much occupied with--charities, and----"

Mrs. Crownenshield stared meditatively at Miss Tripp's small, slight
figure, her gaze appearing to concern itself particularly with her
head-gear from which drooped two large dispirited plumes.

"Tripp--Tripp? I don't place you," she said at last,--"unless you are
Mary Tripp's daughter. She had a daughter, I believe." The Crownenshield
voice was loud and authoritative; it appeared to demand information as
something due, upon which interest had accumulated.

"I am Mary Tripp's daughter," Evelyn informed her, in a sudden panic
lest she be mistaken for an object of charity; then she hesitated, at a
loss for something to say next.

Mrs. Crownenshield sighed heavily. "Poor woman," she observed
lugubriously. "Mary Tripp has had many trials to support."

Evelyn's small, sensitive face grew a shade paler. "Yes," she agreed,
"my dear mother has had more than her share of sorrow and loss. I wonder
if you knew that we--that mother lost all of her remaining property in
the failure of the Back-Bay Security Company?"

Mrs. Crownenshield's cold grey eyes opened a little wider upon her
visitor. "How regrettable!" she observed. "No; I had not heard of it.
But I fear many others have suffered with Mary Tripp. Fortunately for
me, my dear late husband's investments were conservative and safe. Mr.
Crownenshield did not approve of Trust Companies--except those which he
controlled himself. If John Tripp had seen fit to leave his money in
trust with Mr. Crownenshield--and I have always felt surprised and hurt
to think that he did not do so, after all the business relations of the
past--Mary Tripp would be quite comfortable to-day. Pray convey to your
poor afflicted mother my condolences, and tell her that I was greatly
grieved to learn of her misfortunes."

Evelyn murmured incoherent thanks.

"I--came this morning to ask--your advice," she added after a heavy
pause. "I thought--that is, mother thought--that perhaps you--might know
of something I could do to--to earn money. I must do something, you
know." She had grown hot and cold with the shame of this confession
under the unwinking gaze of Mrs. Crownenshield's colourless eyes.

That lady folded her large white hands upon which glittered several
massive rings.

"I shall be very glad to advise you," she said, "if you will acquaint me
with your qualifications for service. I have frequent opportunities to
place indigent but worthy females, such as you appear to be. Are you a
good seamstress?"

"I fear not, Mrs. Crownenshield," faltered Evelyn. "I never liked
sewing."

"You could earn a dollar a day as a skilled seamstress," intoned the
female philanthropist inexorably. "Whether you like sewing or not is of
very little consequence in view of your necessities."

"I thought I should prefer teaching, or----"

Mrs. Crownenshield glanced abstractedly at the massive watch which
depended from some sort of funereal device in black enamel upon her
ample bosom, and compared its silent information with that of the black
marble time-piece on the mantle. Then she arose with a smile, which
appeared to have been carven upon her large pallid face with the effect
of a mask.

"I am very sorry indeed that I can not give you more of my time this
morning," she said mournfully. "But I have a board-meeting of The
Protestant Evangelical Refuge for aged, indigent and immoral females at
half-past eleven o'clock; and at one I am due at a luncheon of the
Federated Woman's Charitable Associations of Boston, at which I shall
preside."

She arose and enfolded both of Miss Tripp's small cold hands in her
large, moist clasp, with an air of fervid emotion.

"I feel for you," she sighed, "I do indeed! and my heart bleeds for your
unfortunate mother. Mary Tripp was always accustomed to every luxury and
extravagance. She must feel the change to abject poverty; but I trust
she will endeavour to lift her thoughts from the sordid cares of earth
toward that better land where--I feel sure--my dear late husband is
enjoying the rest that remaineth. After all, my poor girl, the
consolations of religion are the only sure refuge in this sad world. I
always strive to point the way to those situated like yourself."

"Thank you, Mrs. Crownenshield," said Evelyn stonily.

"If there is anything I can do to assist you further, don't fail to call
upon me freely!" warbled the lady, as Evelyn passed out into the hall.
"I will send you copies of the literature illustrating the work of our
various refuges and asylums. You may be glad to refer to them later."

Evelyn found herself in the street, she hardly knew how, her little feet
carrying her swiftly away from the Crownenshield residence. She felt
hurt and outraged in every fibre of her being, and her tear-blurred eyes
took little note of the weather which had changed from a wet clinging
snow to mingled rain and sleet, which beat upon her unprotected face
like invisible whips. She did not know where to go, or what to do next;
but she hurried blindly forward, her limp skirts gathered in one hand,
her head bent against the piercing wind.

Then, strangely enough, the stinging blast seemed suddenly shut away and
she looked up to find a stout umbrella interposed between her and the
storm. The handle of the umbrella was grasped by a large,
masterful-looking hand in a shabby brown glove, and a broad shoulder
hove into view from behind the hand.

"Where is your umbrella, Miss Tripp?" inquired a voice, as masterful in
its way as the hand.

"Oh!--I--that is, I forgot it," she faltered, looking up into Mr. George
Hickey's eyes, with a belated consciousness of the tears in her own.
"The rain--is--wet," she added, with startling originality.

"Hum; yes," assented Mr. Hickey thoughtfully. He was striving in his
dull masculine way to account for the wan, woe-begone expression of Miss
Tripp's face and for the telltale drops on her thick brown lashes. "I
was on my way to luncheon when I saw you," he went on. "--Er--have
you--lunched, Miss Tripp?"

Evelyn shook her head. "Is it as late as that?" she said. "I ought to
go----"

"Not back to Mrs. Brewster's," he said; "it's too late for
that.--Er--won't you give me the--er--the pleasure of lunching with you?
I--er--in fact, I'm exceedingly hungry myself, and----"

Mr. Hickey stopped short and looked about him somewhat wildly. It had
just occurred to him that he could not invite Miss Tripp to accompany
him to the business men's lunchroom where he usually took his
unimportant meal, and he wondered what sort of a place women went to
anyway, and what they ate?

The experienced Miss Tripp smiled; she appeared to read his thoughts
with an ease which astonished while it frightened him a little.

"It is very good of you to ask me, Mr. Hickey," she said prettily, "and
I shall be very happy to take lunch with you. Do you go to Daniels'? It
is such a nice place, I think, and not far up the street."

"Oh--er--yes; certainly. I like Daniels' exceedingly. A good place,
very. We'll--ah--just step across and---- Oh, I beg your pardon!"

Mr. Hickey was so agitated by the sudden and unprecedented position in
which he found himself that he almost knocked Miss Tripp's hat off with
a sudden swoop of his umbrella, as they crossed the street.

"How stupid of me!" he cried, as she put it straight with one little
hand, smiling up at him forgivingly as she did it. "I'm an awkward sort
of a chap, anyway," he went on with another illustrative jab of the
umbrella. "I guess I'm hopeless as--er--a ladies' man."

"Oh, no, you aren't," contradicted Miss Tripp sweetly. "I never felt
more relieved and--and happy than when I looked up to find your big
umbrella between my head and the storm. I went off to town in such a
hurry this morning that I left my umbrella in the rack in Elizabeth's
hall."

He tried not to look his curiosity; then blurted out his uppermost
thought. "You looked awfully done up when I overtook you; what--er----"

"I was," she confessed. "I was ready to weep with rage and
disappointment. Have you ever felt that way?"

"Well, no," said Mr. Hickey candidly; "I can't say that I've ever got to
the point you mention. I don't believe I've shed a tear since--since my
mother died. She was the only person in the world who cared a rap
whether I sank or swam, survived or perished, and after she went. I----
But I've been angry enough to--er--cuss a little now and then. Of
course ladies can't do that, so----"

Evelyn smiled appreciatively. "It might have relieved my feelings if you
had been there to use a little--strong language for me," she said. Then
she told him something of her visit to Mrs. Crownenshield and its
outcome.

"Hum, yes!" he observed. "I fancy I know her sort, and I--er--despise
it. What did you want her to do for you? There, now I've put my foot in!
It's none of my business of course, Miss Tripp, and you needn't tell
me."

Evelyn hesitated. "I shouldn't like you to think I'm whining or
complaining," she said soberly; "but there's no reason why you--or
anyone--shouldn't know that I am looking for work. I never have
worked"--the brave voice faltered a little--"but that's no reason why I
shouldn't work now. In fact, it's a reason why I must. Everything was
different when I was a girl to what it is now," she went on, calmly
ignoring her "feelings-on-the-subject-of-her-age" which had of late
years been abnormally sensitive. "I wasn't brought up to do anything
more useful than to sew lace on a pocket-handkerchief and play a few
easy pieces on the piano. Of course I learned a little French--enough to
chatter ungrammatically when we went abroad--and a little bad German,
and a little--a very little execrable Italian--nothing of a usable
quantity or quality, you see; so now I find myself----"

"But why? What has happened?" he urged in a low voice.

"The usual and what should have been the expected, I suppose," she told
him. "We--that is mother and I--lost our money. We never thought of such
a thing happening. We had always drawn checks for what we wanted, and
that was all there was of it--till the bank closed, and then of course
we had to think."

"I'm--Confound it; it's too bad!" he said strongly. "Banks have no
business to close; it's--er--it's a national disgrace. There ought to be
some law to--er--put a stop to such outrages on civilisation!"

Miss Tripp said nothing. She was experiencing a quite natural revulsion
of feeling, and was now exceedingly sorry that she had confided anything
of her affairs to Mr. Hickey. "He'll think of course that I am making a
cheap bid for sympathy--perhaps trying to borrow money of him," she
thought, while a painful scarlet crept up into her pale cheeks.

Mr. Hickey was not a tactful man. He did not observe the unwonted colour
in Miss Tripp's face, nor the proud light in her eyes.

"I've got more money than I know what to do with," he said bluntly,
"and--er--I wish you'd allow me to----"

Miss Tripp stopped short. "Oh, Mr. Hickey," she exclaimed regretfully,
"I don't know what you will think of me for accepting your kind
invitation to luncheon, and then leaving you--as I must. I'd entirely
forgotten an important engagement to meet--a friend of mine. I shall
have to ask you to excuse me. It's too bad, isn't it? But I am so
forgetful. And--please don't worry about my absurd confidences. Really,
I exaggerated; I always do. We are perfectly comfortable--mother and
I--only of course it was hard to lose our _surplus_--the jam on our
bread, as I tell mother. But one can live quite comfortably on plain
bread, and it is far better for one; I know that. Good-bye! So kind of
you to shelter me!--No; I couldn't think of taking your umbrella!
Really; don't you see the rain is over; besides, I'm going to take this
car. Good-bye, and thank you so much!"

Mr. Hickey stood quite still on the corner where she had left him and
stared meditatively after the car, which bore her away, for the space of
two unfruitful minutes. Then he turned squarely around and plodded down
town to the business men's lunchroom. He did not care, he told himself,
to change his habits by lunching at Daniels', which was a foolishly
expensive place and haunted by crowds of women shoppers. Women were
singular things, anyway. Mr. Hickey was satisfied, on the whole, that he
was not obliged to meet them often. And later in the day he was
selfishly pleased that he had not been obliged to loan his umbrella; for
the rain, which had ceased a little, came down in icy torrents which
froze as it fell on the sidewalks and branches of the trees.




XIV


Evelyn Tripp never informed anyone where she went on the car that bore
her triumphantly away from Mr. Hickey and the conversation which had
suddenly grown intolerable. The intolerable part of it was her own
fault, she told herself. And--well, she realised that she was paying for
it, as she jounced along over mile after mile of uneven track, through
unfamiliar, yet drearily monotonous streets. Damp, uncomfortable-looking
people came and went, and from time to time the conductor glanced
curiously at the small lady in the fashionably-cut jacket and furs, who
shrank back in her corner gazing with unseeing eyes out of the dripping
windows.

"Las' stop!" he shouted impatiently, as the car came to a groaning
standstill away out in a shabby suburb, where several huge factories
were in process of erection.

Miss Tripp started up and looked out at the sodden fields and muddy,
half-frozen road. Two or three dirty, dispirited-looking men boarded
the car and sat down heavily, depositing their tools at their feet. Then
the driver and conductor, who had swung the trolley around, and
accomplished other official duties incident to the terminal, entered,
closing the doors behind them with a professional crash.

Both stared at Miss Tripp who had subsided into her corner again.

"Say, Bill; nice weather for a trolley-ride--heh?" observed the
motor-man, shifting an obvious quid of something in his capacious mouth.

"Aw--you shut up, Cho'ley!" growled his superior.

Bill thoughtfully obeyed, drumming with his feet on the floor and
pursing up his tobacco-stained lips in an inaudible whistle. Presently
he glanced at his big nickel watch and shook his head at the conductor.
"A minute an' a half yet, b' mine," he said; "made a quick trip out."

Then he cast another side-long glance at the one lady passenger. "Got
carried past, I guess," he suggested with a wink. "Better look sharp for
the right street on the way back, Bill."

"You bet," observed the other, with his hand on the bell-rope. "I'm on
the job all right."


Elizabeth Brewster was giving her youngest son his supper when her
friend Miss Tripp entered her hospitable door.

"Oh, Evelyn!" she began, with an eager air of welcome; "I was hoping you
would come home early to-night, Marian Stanford was here this afternoon;
she wants to go---- But Evelyn, dear, what ever is the matter? You're as
white as a ghost. Don't you feel well?"

Miss Tripp valiantly plucked up a wan smile.

"I am perfectly well," she declared; "but, Betty dear, could you give me
a cup of tea? I was so--busy and--hurried to-day that I forgot all about
my luncheon, and I just this minute realised it."

Elizabeth hurried into the kitchen on hospitable cares intent and Evelyn
sank wearily into a chair. Her head was swimming with weariness and the
lack of food; cold, discouraged drops crowded her blue eyes.

Richard quietly absorbing bread and milk from a gay china bowl gazed at
her with a round speculative stare.

"Cwyin'?" he observed in a bird-like voice.

[Illustration: "Cwyin'?" he observed in a bird-like voice]

"No, dear," denied Miss Tripp, winking resolutely. "What made you think
of such a thing, precious?"

"'Cause it's--it's naughty to cwy."

"I know it, dear; and I'm going to smile; that's better; isn't it?"

Her somewhat hysterical effort after her usual cheerful expression did
not appear to deceive Richard. He waved his spoon charged with milk in
her general direction.

"I'm a dood boy," he announced with pride. "I eat my shupper an' I don't
cwy."

"Here is the tea you're evidently perishing for, Evelyn dear," said
Elizabeth, setting a steaming cup before her guest; "and I've some good
news for you--at least I'm hoping you'll like it. I'm sure I should love
to have you so near us, and it would give you plenty of time to choose
something permanent."

Miss Tripp's wan face had taken on a tinge of colour as she sipped the
hot tea. "What is it, Betty?" she asked quietly enough, though her heart
was beating hard with hope deferred. "Did that Popham man call to see
me after all?"

"No," Elizabeth said; "it isn't the Popham man. And perhaps you won't
like the idea at all. I started to tell you that Marian--Mrs.
Stanford--was here this afternoon. She came over to tell me that her
husband is going to California on a business trip; he wants her to go
with him and she is wild to go; but she doesn't know what to do with the
two children. She can't take them along, as Mr. Stanford will be obliged
to travel rapidly from place to place. Her mother is almost an invalid
and can't bear the excitement of having them with her. It just occurred
to me that perhaps you might be willing to stay with the children. I
spoke of it to Marian and she was delighted with the idea. You could
have your mother come and stay with you, you know, and the house is so
comfortable and pretty."

Elizabeth broke off in sudden consternation at sight of the usually
self-possessed Miss Tripp shaken with uncontrollable sobs. "Why,
Evelyn," she cried, "I never thought you would feel that way about it.
Of course I had no business to speak of you to Marian without
consulting you first; but I thought--I hoped----"

"It--isn't that, Elizabeth," Miss Tripp managed to say, "I'm--not
offended--only tired. Don't mind me; I'll be all right as soon as I've
swallowed my tea and----"

"It's naughty to cwy," chirped Richard, waving his milky spoon
rebukingly. "I'm a dood boy. I eat my shupper an' I don't cwy."

In a fresh gown, with her nerves once more under control, Evelyn was
able to look more composedly at the door which had so unexpectedly
opened in the blind wall of her dilemma. There were serious
disadvantages--as Elizabeth was careful to point out--in attempting the
charge of the Stanford children, in conjunction with various undeniable
privileges and a generous emolument.

"Robbie is certainly a handful for anybody to cope with, and the baby is
a spoiled child already." Elizabeth's voice sank to a soulful murmur, as
she added, "Marian has always believed in punishing her
children--whipping them, I mean; and you know, Evelyn, how that
brutalises a child."

As a matter of fact, Miss Tripp knew very little about children; but
like the majority of persons who have never dealt familiarly with infant
humanity, she had formulated various sage theories concerning their
upbringing.

"Dear Elizabeth," she replied, "how true that is; and yet how few
mothers realise it. Children should be controlled solely by love; I am
sure I shall have no trouble at all with those two dear little boys."

And so it was settled. In less than a week's time Mrs. Stanford had
departed upon her long journey. At the last she clung somewhat wistfully
to Elizabeth.

"I'm almost afraid to go and leave the children," she said. "Of course I
feel every confidence in Miss Tripp; but you know, Betty, how
resourceful Robert is, and how---- But you'll have an eye to them all;
won't you? And telegraph us if--if anything should happen?"

Elizabeth promised everything. But she was conscious of a great weight
of responsibility as the carriage containing the light-hearted Stanfords
rolled away down the street. "Oh, Evelyn!" she said; "do watch Robbie
carefully, and be sure and call me if the least thing is the matter with
the baby."

Miss Tripp smiled confidently. "I'm not the least bit worried," she
said. "Little Robert loves me devotedly already, and I am sure will be
most tractable and obedient; and Livingstone is a very healthy child.
Besides, you know, I have mother, who knows everything about children."

She went back into her newly acquired domain, feeling that a
sympathising Providence had been very good to her, and resolving to do
her full duty, as she conceived it, by the temporarily motherless
Stanford children.

In pursuance of this resolve she repaired at once to the nursery when
the Stanfords had taken leave of their offspring, after presenting them
with a parcel of new toys upon which the children had fallen with shouts
of joy.

"I really could not go away and leave them looking wistfully out of the
windows after us," Mrs. Stanford had declared, with tears in her bright
brown eyes. "I should think of them that way every minute while we were
gone, and imagine them crying after me."

"They won't cry, dear Mrs. Stanford," Evelyn had assured her. "I shall
devote every moment of my time to them and keep them just as happy as
wee little birdlings in a nest."

The youngest Stanford child was peacefully engaged in demolishing a book
of bright pictures, while his elder brother was trying the blade of a
glittering jack-knife on the wood of the mantel-piece, when Miss Tripp
re-entered the room.

"Oh, my dears!" exclaimed their new guardian with a tactful smile, "I
wouldn't do that!"

The Stanford infant paid no manner of attention to the mildly worded
request; but the older boy turned and stared resentfully at her. "This
is my jack-knife," he announced conclusively; "my daddy gave it to me to
whittle with, an' I'm whittlin'."

"But your father wouldn't like you to cut the mantel-shelf; don't you
know he wouldn't, dear?"

"I'm goin' to whittle it jus' the same, 'cause you ain't my mother; you
ain't even my gran'ma."

Miss Tripp, unable to deny the refutation, looked about her
distractedly. "I'll tell Norah to get you a nice piece of wood," she
said. "Where is Norah, dear?"

"She's gone down to the corner to talk to her beau," replied Master
Robert, calmly continuing to dig his new knife into the mantel. "She's
got a p'liceman beau, an' so's Annie; on'y hers is a street-car driver.
Have you got one, Miss Tripp?"

"Call me Aunty Evelyn, dear; that'll be nicer; don't you think it will?
And--Robert dear; if you'll stop cutting the mantel Aunty Evelyn will
tell you the loveliest story, all about----"

"Aw--I don't like stories much. They're good 'nough for girls I guess,
but I----"

Then the knife slipped and the amateur carpenter burst into a deafening
roar of anguish.




XV


Very much to his surprise, Mr. Hickey found himself disposed to hark
back to the day on which he had so unexpectedly parted company with Miss
Tripp on the corner of Tremont and Washington Streets. He had intended,
he told himself, to order for their luncheon broiled chicken, macaroons
and pink ice-cream, as being articles presumably suited to the feminine
taste. He remembered vaguely to have heard Miss Tripp mention pink
ice-cream, and all women liked the wing of a chicken. Was the unknown
"friend" with whom she had made that previous engagement, a man or a
woman? he wondered, deciding with the well-known egoism of his sex in
favour of the first mentioned. The man was a cad, anyway, Mr. Hickey was
positive--though he could not have particularised his reasons for this
summary conclusion. And being a cad, he was not worthy of Miss Tripp's
slightest consideration.

If he had the thing to do over again, he told himself, he would sneak up
boldly to Miss Tripp concerning his own rights in the matter; he would
remind her--humorously of course--that possession was said to be nine
points in the law; and that he, Hickey, was disposed to do battle for
the tenth point with any man living.

He grew quite hot and indignant as he pictured his rival sitting
opposite Miss Tripp in some second-class restaurant, ordering chicken
and ice-cream. As like as not the other fellow wouldn't know that she
preferred her ice-cream pink, and----.

Mr. Hickey pulled himself up with a jerk at this point in his
meditations and told himself flatly that he was a fool, and that
further, when he came right down to it, he did not care a copper cent
about Miss Tripp's luncheons, past, present or to come. What he really
wanted to know--and this desire gained poignant force and persistence as
the days passed--was whether he had said or done anything to offend the
lady. He remembered that he had accidentally jabbed Miss Tripp's hat
with his umbrella, and very likely put a feather or two out of business.
That would be likely to annoy any woman. Perhaps she had felt that his
awkwardness was unpardonable, and his further acquaintance undesirable.

Under the goad of this latter uncomfortable suspicion--in two weeks'
time it had grown into a conviction--he actually made his way into a
milliner's shop and inquired boldly for "feathers."

"What sort of feathers, sir?" inquired the cool, bright-eyed
young person who came forward to ask the needs of the tall,
professional-looking man wearing glasses and exceedingly shabby brown
gloves.

"Why--er--just feathers; the sort ladies wear on hats."

The young person smiled condescendingly. "Something in plumes, sir?" she
asked, "or was it coque or marabout you wished to see?"

"Something handsome. Long--er--and not too curly."

The young woman produced a box and opened it.

"How do you like this, sir? Only twenty dollars. Was it for an old lady
or a young lady?"

"Er--a young lady," said Mr. Hickey hastily. "That is to say, she----"

"Your wife, perhaps?" and the young person smiled intelligently. "How
would your lady like something like this?" And she held up a sweeping
plume of a dazzling shade of green. "This is quite the latest swell
thing from Paris, sir; can be worn on either a black or a white hat."

Mr. Hickey reflected. "I--er--think the feathers were black," he
observed meditatively; "but I like colours myself. Red--er--is a
handsome colour in feathers." He eyed the young person defiantly. "I
always liked a good red," he asserted firmly.

"These new cerise shades are all the rage now in Paris, N'Yo'k an'
Boston," agreed the young person, promptly pulling out another box.
"Look at this grand plume in shaded tints, sir! Isn't it just perfectly
stunning?"

It was. Mr. Hickey surveyed it in rapt admiration, as the young person
dangled it alluringly within range of his short-sighted vision.

"I'd want two of those," he murmured.

"Forty-eight, seventy, sir; reduced from fifty dollars; shall I send
them?"

"I--er--I'll take them with me," said the engineer, pulling out a roll
of bills.

"Women's hats must be singularly expensive," he mused for the first time
in his professional career, as he strode away down the street, gingerly
bearing his late purchase in a pasteboard box. It had not before
occurred to Mr. Hickey that mere "feathers" were so costly. He trembled
as he reflected upon the ravages committed by his unthinking umbrella.
Anyway, these particular plumes were handsome enough to replace the ones
he had undoubtedly ruined. He grew eager to behold Miss Tripp's face
under the cerise plumes. But how was this to be brought about? Obviously
this new perplexity demanded time for consideration. He carried the
plumes home to his boarding-place, therefore, and stored them away on
the top shelf of his closet, where they were discovered on the following
day by his landlady, who was in the habit of keeping what she was
pleased to term "a motherly eye" upon the belongings of her unattached
boarders.

"Well, I mus' say!" exclaimed the worthy Mrs. McAlarney to herself, when
her amazed eyes fell upon the contents of the strange box, purporting
to have come from a fashionable milliner's shop; "if that ain't the
greatest! Whatever's got into Mr. Hickey?"

But the cerise plumes tarried in undeserved obscurity on the shelf of
Mr. Hickey's clothes-press for exactly fifteen days thereafter; then
they suddenly disappeared.

In the meantime their purchaser continued to indulge in unaccustomed
reflections from day to day. He made no effort during all this time to
see Miss Tripp; but on the fifteenth day he chanced to meet Sam Brewster
as he was about entering the business men's lunchroom, which Mr. Hickey
still frequented as in former days.

"Hello, old man!" was Sam's greeting. "Where have you been keeping
yourself all these weeks? I thought you'd be around some evening to see
us."

"Er--I've been thinking of it," admitted Mr. Hickey cautiously.
"Is--er--Mrs. Brewster's friend, Miss Tripp, still with you?"

"No, George; she isn't," Sam told him, enjoying the look of uncontrolled
dismay which instantly overspread Mr. Hickey's countenance. "She's gone
next door to stay," he added.

"Next door--to--er stay?"

"At the Stanfords' you know. Miss Tripp is keeping house and looking
after the young Stanfords while their exhausted parents are endeavouring
to recuperate their energies in the far west."

"Hum--ah," quoth Mr. Hickey thoughtfully, his mind reverting casually to
the cerise plumes.

"She's doing wonders with those kids, my wife tells me," pursued Sam
Brewster artfully. "Miss Tripp's a fine girl and no mistake; it'll be a
lucky man who can secure her services for life."

Mr. Hickey offered no comment on this statement, and his friend waved
his hand in token of farewell.

"Come around and see us, George, when you haven't anything better to
do," he said, as he stepped out to the street.

"Oh--er--I say, Brewster; would it be the proper thing for me to call on
Miss Tripp? I--I have a little explanation to make, and----"

"Miss Tripp's mother is chaperoning her," said Sam, with unsmiling
gravity. "It would be, I should say, quite the proper thing for you to
call upon her."

"Well; then I think I'd better take those----. Er--Brewster, I wonder if
you could enlighten me?--You see it's this way, a--friend of mine called
at my office the other day to consult me about a little matter. He said
he'd been unfortunate enough to injure a lady's hat--feathers, you
know--and he wanted to know what I'd do under like circumstances. 'Well,
my dear fellow,' I told him, 'I don't know much about women's head-gear
and that sort of thing; but,' I said, 'I should think the square thing
to do would be to buy some handsome plumes and send them to the
lady--something good and--er--expensive; say forty or fifty dollars.'"

Sam whistled. "Pretty tough advice, unless the fellow happened to have
plenty of cash," he hazarded, with a quizzical look at the now flushed
and agitated Mr. Hickey.

"Wouldn't they be good enough at that price?" inquired the engineer
excitedly. "Ought I--ought my friend to have paid more?"

"I should say that was a fair price," said Sam mildly. "I don't believe
my wife has any feathers of that description on her hats."

Mr. Hickey looked troubled. "Do you think I--er--told my friend the
correct thing to do?" he inquired humbly. "Of course I don't know much
about--feathers, or anything about women, for that matter."

"That's where you're making a big mistake, Hickey, if you'll allow me to
say as much. You ought to marry some nice girl, man, and make her happy.
You'd find yourself happier than you have any idea of in the process."

Mr. Hickey shook his head dubiously. "That may be so," he admitted. "I
don't doubt it, to tell you the truth; but I----. The fact is, Brewster,
I'm too far along in life to think of changing my way of living. I--I'd
be afraid to try it, for fear----"

"Oh, nonsense, man! you're just in your prime. Be sure you get the right
woman, though; a real home-maker, Hickey; the kind who'll meet you at
night with a smile, and have a first-class dinner ready for you three
hundred and sixty-five days in the year."

Mr. Hickey stared inscrutably at a passing truck. "Hum--ah!" he
ejaculated. "I--er--dare say you are right, Brewster. Quite so, in
fact. I--I'll think it over and let you know--that is, I----"

Sam Brewster turned aside to conceal a passing smile. "The more you
think it over the better," he said convincingly; "only don't take so
much time for thinking that the other man'll cut you out."

"Then there is another man!" exclaimed Mr. Hickey, with some agitation.
"I knew it; I felt sure of it. But how could it be otherwise?"

Sam Brewster stared in amazement at the effect produced by his careless
speech. "There's always another man, George," he said seriously--though
he felt morally certain there wasn't, if Hickey was referring to Miss
Tripp. "But you want to get busy, and not waste time philandering."




XVI


The most unthinking observer could scarcely have accused Mr. Hickey of
"philandering" up to this point; inasmuch as he had not laid eyes on the
object of his thoughts--he would have demurred at a stronger word--for
upwards of a month. That same afternoon, however, he left his office at
the unwarranted hour of two o'clock, bearing a milliner's box in his
hand with unblushing gravity.

It was after he had rung the bell at the Stanford residence that he felt
a fresh accession of doubt regarding the cerise plumes. After all,
Brewster had neglected to put his mind at ease upon that important
point.

Miss Tripp was at home, the maid informed him, and showed him at once
into the drawing-room when Miss Tripp herself, charmingly gowned in old
rose, presently came in to greet him.

Mr. Hickey caught himself gazing at the subdued tints of her toilet with
vague disapproval. It was not, he told himself, a stunning colour such
as was all the rage in Paris, New York and Boston. He felt exceedingly
complacent as he thought of the plumes awaiting her acceptance.

"I wonder," Miss Tripp was saying brightly, "if you wouldn't like to see
my little kindergarten? To tell you the truth, Mr. Hickey, I shouldn't
venture to leave them to themselves, even to talk with you."

She led the way to the library where they were greeted by a chorus of
joyous shouts.

"You see," exclaimed Miss Tripp, "I am entertaining all five of the
children this afternoon. Elizabeth--Mrs. Brewster--wished to do some
shopping, so I offered to keep an interested eye on her three wee
lambkins."

"We're playin' birdies, Mr. Hickey," said Doris, taking up the thread of
explanation, "Buddy and Baby Stanford are my little birdies; an' I'm the
mother bird, an' Carroll an' Robbie are angleworms jus' crawlin' round
on the ground. See me hop! Now I'm lookin' for a breakfast for my little
birds!"

The two infants in a nest of sofa-pillows set up a loud chirping, while
the angleworms writhed realistically on the hearth-rug.

"Now I'm goin' to catch one!" and Doris pounced upon Robbie Stanford.
"Course I can't really put him down my birdies' throats," she explained
kindly, "I just p'tend; like this."

"Aw--this isn't any fun," protested her victim, as she haled him
sturdily across the floor. "You're pullin' my hair, anyway; leg-go,
Doris; I ain't no really worm."

"You shouldn't say 'ain't,' dear," admonished Miss Tripp. "You meant to
say 'I'm not really a worm.' But I'm sure you've played birdie long
enough. We'll do something else now; what shall it be?"

"Let's play reg'lar tea-party with lots an' lots o' things to eat,"
suggested Master Stanford. "I'm hungry!"

"Oh, no, dear; not yet; you can't be," laughed Miss Tripp. "We'll have a
tea-party, though, by and by, and you shall see what a nice surprise
Cook Annie has for you."

"I like t' eat better 'n anything; don't you?" asked Doris, sidling up
to the observant Mr. Hickey, who was watching the scene with an
inscrutable smile. "I like to eat candy out of a big box."

"Doris, dear," interrupted Miss Tripp tactfully, "wouldn't you like to
look at pictures a little while with the boys? Aunty Evelyn has some
pretty books that you haven't seen. Come here, dear, and help Aunty."

"I'm tired o' pictures," objected Doris with a pout. "I want to play
train, or somethin' like that; don't you, Robbie?"

"Don't want to play anythin' much; I'm tired o' bein' s' good, 'n' I'd
rather go up in the attic, or somewhere," and Master Stanford cast a
rebellious glance at his guardian.

"Why don't you let them go out doors for a while," suggested Mr. Hickey,
coming unexpectedly to the rescue.

"It's snowing a little; and I'm afraid Elizabeth would think it was
pretty cold for Richard," objected Miss Tripp.

"It'll do 'em good," insisted Mr. Hickey, who was selfishly determined
to clear the decks for his own personal ends. He had somehow formulated
a very surprising set of resolutions as he sat watching Miss Tripp in
the discharge of her quasi maternal duties. Primus: It was a shame for a
sweet, attractive little woman to wear herself out caring for other
people's houses and children. Secundus: If there was another man in the
case (as Brewster had insinuated) he was determined to find it out
without further delay. Tertius: If not----. Mr. Hickey drew a long
breath.

"Do you want to go out in the yard a little while?" Miss Tripp was
asking the children doubtfully. "It is Norah's afternoon out," she
explained to Mr. Hickey, "and I don't like to have them play out of
doors unless someone is with them to see that nothing happens. It is
such a responsibility," she added with a little sigh. "I had no idea of
it when I undertook it; I'm afraid I shouldn't have had the courage
to----. Oh, children; wait a minute! Let Aunty Evelyn put on your
overshoes--Robbie, dear!"

"Come back here, young man!" commanded Mr. Hickey in a voice which
effectually arrested the wandering attention of Master Stanford. "Here,
I'll fix 'em up. If I can't, I'm not fit to put through another tunnel!
Here you, Miss Flutterbudget; is this your coat?"

Miss Tripp flew to the rescue. "Oh, thank you, Mr. Hickey," she
murmured, flashing a mirthful glance of protest at the engineer. "But to
array four small children for out of doors on a winter day is vastly
more complicated than digging a tunnel. Wait, Doris; you haven't your
mittens."

They were all ready at last, and Evelyn herded them carefully out into
the back yard and shut the latticed door leading to the street upon
them.

"Now I must watch them every minute from the library window," she said
to Mr. Hickey. "You've no idea what astonishing things they'll think of
and--do. One ought to have the eyes of an Argus and the arms of a
Briareus to cope successfully with Robert."

"Bright boy--very," observed Mr. Hickey absent-mindedly. "I--er--am very
fond of boys."

"Oh, are you?" asked Evelyn with mild surprise, as she craned her neck
to look out of the window. "I hope they won't make their snow-balls too
hard. It is really dangerous when the snow is soft."

"--Er--I wish you'd stop looking out of that window, Miss Tripp
and--er--give me your attention for about five minutes," said Mr.
Hickey, with very much the same tone and manner he would have employed
in addressing his stenographer. He told himself that he was perfectly
cool and collected, but unluckily in his efforts to visualise his inward
calm he succeeded in looking particularly stern and professional.
"I--er--called on a little matter of business this afternoon, Miss
Tripp, and I--to put it clearly before you--would like to recall to your
mind the day--something like a month ago, when you--when I--er--met you
and asked you to lunch with me. You may recall the fact?"

Miss Tripp gazed at Mr. Hickey with some astonishment. Then she blushed,
wondering if he had found out that she had prevaricated in the matter of
a previous engagement.

"I--remember; yes," she murmured.

"It was a great disappointment to me at the time," he went on. "I wanted
to talk to you further. I wanted to--er--tell you----" He paused and
stole a glance at the pretty worn profile she turned toward him, as she
looked apprehensively out of the window.

"The children are--playing very prettily together," she said. "And, see,
the sun has come out."

"You--er--have known me a long time," he said huskily. "Once you
laughed at me because I was homely and--er--awkward, and since then----"

She interrupted him with a little murmur of protest. "I was hoping you
had forgotten that," she said softly.

"I have never forgotten anything that you said or did," he declared,
with the delightful though sudden conviction that this was strictly
true. "It really is singular, when you come to think of it; but it's a
fact. I don't know as I should have realised it though if I--if you----"

She started to her feet with a little cry of alarm. "Something has
happened to Carroll!" she said. "I must go out and see."

He followed her distracted flight with the grim resolve not to be balked
of his purpose.

"Oh! what is it?" she was asking wildly of the other children, who
huddled crying about the small figure of Carroll which was flattened
against the iron fence, emitting strange and dolorous sounds of woe.

"Aw--I tol' Carroll he didn't das' to put his tongue out on th' iron
fence; an' he did it; an' now he's stuck to it, 'n' can't get away,"
explained Master Stanford with scientific accuracy. "I don't see why;
do you?"

"Oh, you poor darling! What shall I do; can't you----"

"Ah-a-a-a!" howled the victim, writhing in misery.

"Hold on there, youngster!" shouted Mr. Hickey, whose experienced eye
had taken in the situation at a glance. "Wait till I get some hot water;
don't move, boys! Don't touch him, Evelyn!"

It was the work of several moments to successfully detach the rash
experimenter from his uncomfortable proximity to the iron fence. But Mr.
Hickey accomplished the feat, with a patience and firmness which won for
him the loud encomiums of Mrs. Stanford's Irish Annie, who came out
bare-armed to assist in the operation.

"Oh, you're the bad boy entirely!" she said to Robbie, who stared
open-mouthed at the scene from the safe vantage ground of the back
stoop. "Many's the time I've towld what would happen to yez if you put
yer tongue t' th' fence in cowld weather."

"I wanted to see if it was true," said Master Stanford coolly. "You said
th' was a p'liceman comin' after me, an' th' wasn't, when I ate the
frostin' off your ol' cake."

"If your mother was here she'd be afther takin' th' paddle to yez," said
Annie wrathfully. "I've a mind to do it meself."

Master Stanford fled to the safe shelter of the library where Carroll,
ensconced on Mr. Hickey's knee, was being soothed with various
emollients and lotions at the hands of Miss Tripp.

"I should never have known what to do," she said, looking up from her
ministrations to find Mr. Hickey's eyes fixed full upon her. "How could
you think so quickly?"

"Because I tried it myself once upon a time," said Mr. Hickey. "It's
about the only way to learn things," he added somewhat grimly. "But I
wish our young friend had taken another day for improving his knowledge
on the subject of the prehensile powers of iron when applied to a moist
surface on a cold day."

For some reason or other he felt very much neglected and correspondingly
out of temper as Miss Tripp ministered to the numerous wants of her
small charges during the half hour that followed. To be sure she poured
him a cup of tea (which he detested) and pressed small frosted cakes
upon him with the sweetest of abstracted smiles.

"I must go at once," he bethought himself, as he refused a second cup.
"I--er--shall be late to my dinner." But he lingered gloomily while she
cheered the afflicted Carroll with warm milk well sweetened with sugar.

"You'll find some--some feathers in a box in the hall," he informed her,
when he finally took his leave. "I wanted to tell you that
I--er--regretted exceedingly that I had injured yours with my umbrella
on the day we were to have lunched together and--didn't."

Miss Tripp took the cerise plumes out of their wrappings and examined
them in the blissful security of her own room--this after the Brewster
children had gone home and the Stanford children were at last in bed and
safely asleep.

"How-extraordinary!" she murmured, her cheeks reflecting palely the
vivid tints of the latest importation from Paris.




XVII


Having definitely abandoned the unthinking, hit-or-miss method of child
discipline practised by the generality of parents, Elizabeth Brewster
and her husband found themselves facing a variety of problems. To be
exact, there were three of them; Carroll, with his somewhat timid and
yielding, yet too self-conscious nature; Doris, hot-tempered, generous
and loving, and baby Richard, who already exhibited an adamantine
firmness of purpose, which a careless observer might have termed
stubbornness. There was another questionable issue which these
wide-awake young parents were obliged to face, and that was the entirely
unconfessed partiality which Elizabeth cherished for her first-born son
and the equally patent yet unacknowledged "particular affection" Sam
felt for his one small daughter. More than once in the past the two had
found themselves at the point of serious disagreement when the boy and
girl had come into collision; Sam hotly--too hotly--upholding the cause
of Doris, while Elizabeth was almost tearfully sure that her son had
not been in fault. Neither had taken the pains to trace these quite
human and natural predilections to their source; but they were agreed in
thinking the outcome unsafe. They determined, therefore, to defer to the
other's judgment in those instances when special discipline appeared to
be demanded by either child.

All this by way of prelude to a certain stormy evening in March when Sam
Brewster, returning more tired than usual from a long day of hard work
in his office, found his Elizabeth with reddened eyelids and a general
appearance of carefully subdued emotion.

"Well! I say," he began, as he divested himself of his wet coat and
kicked off his overshoes with an air bordering on impatience; "it's
beastly weather outside; hope none of it's got inside. Where are the
kiddies? And what is the matter with the lady of the house?"

Elizabeth plucked up a small, faint smile which she bestowed upon the
questioner with a wifely kiss.

"I've had a very trying time with Doris to-day," she said; "but I didn't
mean to mention it till after dinner."

Sam shrugged his shoulders. "I shall at least have to change part of my
clothes, my dear," he said crisply. "I'll hear the catalogue of the
young lady's crimes when I'm dry, if you don't mind."

The dinner was excellent, and there was a salad and a pudding which
elicited the warmest commendation from the head of the house. He was
aware, however, of an unbending attitude of mind upon the part of
Elizabeth and an unnatural decorum in the conduct of the children which
somewhat marred the general enjoyment. Sam eyed his small daughter
quizzically from time to time, as she sat with eyes bent upon her plate.

"Well," he said at last, in his usual half-joking manner, "I hear there
have been ructions in this ranch since I left home this morning. What
have you been doing, Dorry, to make your mother look like the old lady
who makes vinegar for a living?"

The little girl giggled as she stole a glance at her mother's face; then
she ran quickly to her father's side and nestled her hand in his. "I'm
always good when you're here, daddy," she said in a loud, buzzing
whisper. "I wish you stayed at home all th' time 'stead of mother."

Elizabeth bit her lip with vexation, and Sam laughed aloud, his eyes
filled with a teasing light.

"That appears to be a counter indictment for you, Betty," he said.
"Or--we might call it a demurrer--eh? Come, tell me what's happened to
disturb the family peace. I see it's broken all to bits."

Elizabeth arose with unsmiling dignity. "Celia would like to clear the
table," she said; "I think we had better go into the sitting-room."

She did not offer either accusation or explanation after they were all
seated about the blazing wood fire, which the Brewsters were agreed in
terming their one extravagance; for a few moments no one spoke.

"I really hate to go into this matter of naughty deeds just now," began
Sam, stretching his slippered feet to the warmth with an air of extreme
comfort. "Couldn't we--er--quash the proceedings; or---- See here, I'll
tell you; suppose we issue an injunction and bind over all young persons
in this house to keep the peace. Well, now, won't that do, Betty?"

"I'm really afraid it won't, Sam," said Elizabeth firmly. "I didn't
punish Doris for what she did this afternoon. It seemed to me that it
would be better for her to tell you about it herself. Something ought to
be done to prevent it from happening again; perhaps you will know what
that something is."

Her face was grave, and she did not choose to meet the twinkle in her
husband's eyes.

He lifted his daughter to his knee. "It's up to you, Dorry," he said;
"I'm all attention. Come, out with it. Tell daddy all about it."

He passed his hand caressingly over her mane of silken hair and bent his
tall head to look into her abashed eyes.

Thus encouraged the little girl nestled back into the circle of the
strong arms which held her, dimpling with anticipated triumph.

"I was playin' mother," she began, "an' Carroll was my husban', an' Baby
Dick was my child. An'--an' Dick was naughty. He wouldn't mind me when I
told him to stop playin' with his cars an' come to mother. I spoke real
kind an' gentle, too: 'Put down your train an' come to mother,
darlin',' I said. But he jus' wouldn't, daddy. He said, 'No; I won't!'
jus' like that he said."

"Hum!" commented her father. "And what did you do then?"

"Well, you see, daddy, I was p'tendin' I was Mrs. Stanford; so 'course I
was 'bliged to punish Dick for not mindin'. I got mother's butter-paddle
an' I whipped him real hard, an' I said 'it hurts mother more 'n it
hurts you, darlin'!' Robbie says that's what his mother says when she
whips him. He says he don't b'lieve it. But Dick wasn't good after I
whipped him. He jus' turned 'round an' pulled my hair an' screamed--with
both han's he pulled it an' jerked it; then I--I bit him."

"You--_what_, Doris?"

"I bit him, jus' to make him let go. An'--an' he was softer'n I thought
he was. I never knew such a soft baby."

The little girl hung her head before her father's stern look; her voice
threatened to break in a sob. "I didn't think--Dick--was--so--so full
of--juice," she quavered.

"Did you really bite your dear little brother till the blood came,
Doris? I can't believe it!"

Sam glanced inquiringly at his wife; but she held her peace, her eyes
drooped upon the sewing in her hands.

"I--I didn't b'lieve it either--at first," Doris said quickly. "I
thought it was jus'--red paint."

"Why, Doris Brewster!" piped up Carroll, unable to contain himself
longer; "that's a reg'lar fib!"

"Had Dick been playing with red paint?" interrogated Sam gravely, his
eyes fixed upon the culprit who was beginning to fidget uneasily in his
arms.

"N-o, daddy," confessed the child in a whisper.

Her father considered her answer in silence for a moment or two; then he
looked over at his wife.

"Elizabeth," he said. "Isn't it time for these young persons to go to
bed?"

She glanced up at the clock. "I think it is, dear," she replied.
"But----"

He checked her with a quick look. "I shall have to think this over," he
said, setting Doris upon her feet. Then he put his arm about his son and
kissed him. "Good-night, Carroll."

Doris, dimpling and rosy, lifted her eager little face to her father's;
but he deliberately put her aside.

"Aren't you going to kiss me, too, daddy?" wailed the child, in a sudden
passion of affection and something akin to fear. "I love you, daddy!"

"I'm a little afraid of you, Dorry," her father said gravely. "I'm not
sure that you are entirely safe to--kiss."

"But I wouldn't bite you, daddy! I _wouldn't_!"

"Why wouldn't you?"

"Because I--because I love you."

"I always supposed you loved Baby Dick," said her father, turning away
from the piteous, grieved look in her eyes; "but it seems I was
mistaken."

"But, daddy, I do! I do love Dick! I love him more'n a million, an'----"

"Good-night, Doris." There was stern finality in Sam's voice, though his
eyes were wet.

Elizabeth led the two children away, Doris shaken with sobs and Carroll
casting backward glances of troubled awe at his father who continued to
look steadily into the fire.

He still sat in his big chair, his face more sober and thoughtful than
its wont, when his wife returned.

"I'm afraid Doris will cry herself to sleep to-night," she said
doubtfully.

He made no reply.

"You wouldn't like to go up and kiss her good-night, Sam?"

"Better one night than a hundred," he said, ignoring her suggestion.
Then he bent forward and poked the fire with unnecessary violence. "Poor
little girl," he murmured.

A light broke over her face. "Do you think this is the natural penalty?"
she asked.

A wailing sob floated down to them from above in the silence that
followed her question.

"It was, perhaps, one of the penalties sure to follow a similar line of
conduct," he said slowly. "She'll remember it, you'll find, better than
one of Mrs. Stanford's whippings."

[Illustration: "She'll remember it, you'll find, better than one of Mrs.
Stanford's whippings"]

He turned to look at his wife with a smile. "'It hurts mother more than
it does you, darling!'" he quoted with a grimace. "I thought that
particular sort of cant was out of date. An irascible person who flies
into a rage and frankly administers punishment on the spot I can
understand. I used to get a thrashing of that sort about once in so
often from Aunt Julia; and I don't remember hating her for it. Where did
Marian dig up such rank nonsense?"

"At her 'Mothers' Club,' I suppose," Elizabeth told him with a
disdainful curl of her pretty lips. "I went once and heard a woman say
that she always prayed with her child first and whipped him severely
afterward."

"Beastly cant!" groaned Sam disgustedly. "I'm glad you don't go in for
that sort of thing, Betty."

"It would drive me to almost anything, if I were a child and had to
endure it," Elizabeth said positively.

Both parents were silent for a long minute, and both appeared to be
listening for the sound of muffled sobbing from above stairs.

"You--you'll forgive her--to-morrow; won't you, Sam?" whispered
Elizabeth.

"Forgive her?" he echoed. "You know I'm not really angry with her,
Betty; but if we can teach our small daughter through her affections to
control her passions, can't you see what it will do for the child?
Perhaps," he added under his breath, "that is what--God--does with us.
Sometimes--we are allowed to suffer. I have been, and--I know I have
profited by it."

Sam Brewster was not one of those who talk over-familiarly of their
Maker. A word like this meant that he was profoundly moved. Elizabeth's
eyes dwelt on her husband with a trust and affection which spoke louder
than words. After a while she laid her hand in his.

"If you would always advise me with the children," she murmured, "I'm
sure we could--help them to be good."

"That is it, Betty," he said, meeting her misty look with a smile. "We
cannot force our children into goodness, or torture them into
wisdom--even if we can compel them to a show of submission which they
would make haste to throw off when they are grown. But we can help them
to choose the good, now and as long as we live. And we'll do it, little
mother; for I'm not going to shirk my part of it in the future. As you
said long ago, it's the most important thing in the world for us to do
just now."




XVIII


Perhaps because she had cried herself to sleep the night before, Doris
awakened late the next morning to find Carroll at her bedside completely
dressed and with the shining morning face which follows prolonged
scrubbing with soap and water.

"Has daddy gone?" she inquired anxiously, as she rubbed the dreams out
of her brown eyes.

"Not yet, sleepy-head," Carroll informed her; "but he's puttin' on his
overcoat this minute an' kissin' mother good-bye. I got up early," he
added complacently, "an' dressed myself all by my lone an' had my
breakfas' with daddy. I'm goin' to do it every mornin' after this. He
likes to have me."

Sam Brewster, in the act of bestowing a final hasty kiss upon his
Elizabeth's flushed cheek, was startled by the sight of a small figure
in white with a cloud of bright hair which flew down the stairs and into
his arms with a loud wail of protest.

"Kiss me good-bye, too, daddy! Kiss me!"

Sam caught the little warm, throbbing body and held it close. "Father's
baby daughter," he whispered, bending his head to her pink ear. "She
shall kiss her daddy good-bye."

"I'm goin' to be jus' as good to-day, daddy; I'm goin' to be gooder 'an
Carroll. 'N'--'n' I'll never, never bite anybody again; never in my
world. I promise!"

Sam gazed fondly down at the sparkling little face against his breast.
"That's daddy's good girl!" he exclaimed heartily. "Do you hear that,
mother?"

"Yes; I hear," Elizabeth said doubtfully. "I'm sure I hope Doris will
remember. Sometimes you forget so quickly, dear."

"We all do that, Betty," Sam said gravely, as he surrendered the child
to her mother.

His face was thoughtful as he hurried away down the street to catch his
car. To his surprise his friend Stanford swung himself aboard at the
next corner.

"Why, hello, Stanford," he looked up from a hurried perusal of his paper
to say. "I didn't know you were home. When did you come?"

"Last night," said the other, dropping into a seat beside his
neighbour. "The fact is, Marian couldn't stand it to be away from the
children another day. She was sure Rob would burn the house down with
everything in it, including the baby; or that some equally heartrending
thing would happen--it was a fresh one every day. It got on her nerves,
as she puts it; and finally on mine; so we gave up our trip to Santa
Barbara and came home literally post-haste. I was sorry, for I don't
know when we shall get another such chance. But you know how it is,
Brewster; a woman won't listen to rhyme or reason where her children are
concerned."

"I understand," Sam agreed briefly; "my wife is the same way. But of
course you found everything in good order--eh? Miss Tripp appeared to be
all devotion to the children, and my wife kept a motherly eye on them."

"Oh, everything was all right, of course; just as I told Marian it would
be: the children were in bed and asleep and everything about the place
in perfect trim. I'm sure we're a thousand times obliged to you and
Mrs. Brewster; Marian will tell you so. Er--by the way, our mutual
friend Hickey appeared to be calling upon Miss Tripp when we arrived,
and Marian insists that we interrupted some sort of important interview
by our untimely appearance. She said she felt it in the air. I laughed
at her. Of course I know as well as you do that Old Ironsides isn't
matrimonially inclined, and while Miss Tripp may be an excellent nurse
and housekeeper, she isn't exactly----"

"H'm!" commented Sam non-committally, "there's no accounting for tastes,
you know. Hickey's a queer chap; queer as Dick's hat-band; but a good
sort--an all-round, square good fellow."

"Sure! I believe you. But I had to laugh at my boy Robert. He's all
ears, and smarter than a steel trap. He overheard something of what my
wife was saying to me. 'Mr. Hickey doesn't come to see Miss Tripp,' he
puts in, as large as life; 'he comes to see me an' baby, 'specially me;
he comes most every day, an' he brings us candy an' oranges.' Isn't that
rather singular--eh?"

"Not at all," Sam assured him warmly; "Hickey is very fond of children,
always has been. He's always dropping in to see Carroll and Doris.
Um--did you see this account of Judge Lindsay's doings in his children's
court? I've come across a number of articles about his work lately.
Seems to me it's mighty suggestive, the way he's gone to work to make
good citizens out of material which would otherwise fill the state
prisons; and it's all done through some sort of moral suasion
apparently. He gets into sympathy with those poor little chaps; climbs
down to their level, somehow or other; sees things through their eyes;
gets their point of view, and then deals with them as man to man--or boy
to boy. I believe he's got the matter of discipline--all sorts of
discipline--cinched. We're going to try some of his methods with our
children."

Young Stanford stared for a moment at his neighbour, then he threw back
his head and chuckled.

"I beg your pardon, Brewster," he exclaimed; "but it struck me as
being--er--a decidedly original idea, that of establishing a children's
court in your own home. Perhaps it was Mrs. Brewster's notion; Marian
tells me she's very--er--advanced, when it comes to disciplining the
children."

Sam Brewster's blue eyes rested steadily upon his neighbour.

"Singular as the statement may sound, I'm prepared to say that I'm
somewhat interested in my children's upbringing on my own account," he
said coolly. "My wife has notions, as you call them, and one of them is
that a father has quite as much responsibility in the training of the
children as the mother. I believe she's right."

"Well, I can't see it that way," drawled Stanford. "I'm perfectly
willing to leave the kids to Marian while they're small; when they're
too big for her to handle I'll take 'em in hand. They'll obey _me_,
you'd better believe, from the word go. I think as my father did, that a
child ought to mind as though he were fired out of a gun."

"It seems to me a child is a reasonable being, and has a reasoning
being's right to understand something of the whys and wherefores of his
obedience," protested Sam, vaguely aware that he was quoting the
opinions of someone else. "Besides that, don't they tell us a child's
character is pretty well formed by the time he is seven?"

"Bosh!" exploded Stanford. "I wouldn't give a brass nickel for all the
theories you can bundle together. There were no sort of explanations or
mollycoddling coming to me, when I was a kid. It was 'do this, sir'; or
'don't do the other.' I can tell you, I walked a chalk-line till I was
sixteen. Why, gracious! if I'd attempted to argue and talk back to my
governor the way your boy talks to you--you needn't deny it, for I've
heard him myself--I'd have stood up to eat for a week. I've done it more
than once for simply looking cross-eyed, and I can tell you it did me
good."

Sam Brewster eyed his companion with grave interest; there was no
animosity in his tone and merely a friendly interest in his face as he
inquired:

"You walked a chalk-line till you were sixteen, you say; what did you do
then?"

Young Stanford's handsome dark face reddened slightly.

"I--er--well, you see I got red-hot at the pater one day because he--you
see I'd grown pretty fast and was as tall as he was, and--er--I balked;
thought I was too big to be thrashed, as I deserved. Why, you know what
I did as well as I do, Sam. I've always been ashamed of it, of course,
and of the trouble I made my mother. She was and is the best mother
ever, mild and sweet-tempered; but she couldn't handle _me_. Why, man, I
was a holy terror, and my boy Rob is exactly like me." He spoke
complacently, almost triumphantly. "I'll take it out of him, though.
Watch me!"

"Then you don't think we could both learn a thing or two from Judge
Lindsay and other specialists about the way to manage and bring up our
boys?" persisted Sam, a slow twinkle dawning in his blue eyes. "We know
it all--eh? and don't require any enlightenment?"

"I know enough to bring up my own boy, I should hope," responded
Stanford, with heat. "If he cuts up the way I did, I'll take it out of
his young hide some day; that's a sure proposition."

"And then possibly, since he's so much like his father, he might
balk--when he gets tall enough--and he might not--come back in three
days, the way you did. Pardon me, old man, for speaking so plainly; but
as long as our children play together and go to school together, your
business and mine are one when it comes to their training. And if half
the rich men in the country can afford to spend most of their time and
millions of their dollars in improving the horses, cattle, pigs and
poultry of the country, you and I won't be exactly wasting our time if
we discuss child improvement occasionally."

"That's where you're off, Brewster; the discipline of a man's own
children is a strictly private and personal matter. You'll excuse me if
I say just what I think, and that is that the methods I adopt with my
boy are none of your or any man's business."

"And I'm obliged to differ with you there; the way you bring up your boy
is not only my business but everybody's business. It concerns the
neighbourhood, the state, the nation and the world."

"Now you're ranting, my boy, and I can't listen to you. But I'll tell
you what I'll do; I'll tell Mrs. Stanford to get us both invitations to
attend the next of her 'mother's meetings.' I'll go, if you will, and
we'll hold forth on our respective ideas at length. How does that
strike you?"

"As an eminently sensible and sane proposition," Sam said coolly, as he
rose to leave the car. "A parent's club--eh? A capital idea; well worth
working up. I'll see you later with regard to it."

Stanford grinned derisively as he buried himself in the pages of his
newspaper. "Brewster's getting to be a bally crank," he told himself.
Then his eye fastened upon a paragraph heading with a reminiscent
thrill. "Boy of fifteen runs away from home in company with a
neighbour's son, after a disagreement with his father!"

His rapid eye took in the details, meagre and commonplace, of the
missing lads and their home-life.

"Young rascals!" he muttered, and passed on to the political situation
in which he was deeply interested. Curiously enough, though, that
paragraph concerning the runaway boys recurred to his mind more than
once during the day, bringing with it an unwontedly poignant
recollection of his own headlong flight and ignominious home-coming,
foot-sore and hungry after three days of wretched wandering. He had
never forgotten the experience and never would. It had done him a world
of good, he had since declared stoutly. But he shivered at the thought
of his own son alone and hungry in the streets of a great city.




XIX


Elizabeth was quite as busy as usual looking after the interests of her
small kingdom when Evelyn Tripp called that same morning.

"I have come," she said, "to say good-bye." Then in answer to
Elizabeth's look of surprised enquiry, "The Stanfords came home quite
unexpectedly last evening, so I shall return to Dorchester this
afternoon. Mother has already gone; I've just been to the train with
her."

Elizabeth surveyed her friend dubiously. "Perhaps you are not altogether
sorry on the whole," she said, "though the children have behaved
surprisingly well--for them."

"The baby is a dear," agreed Miss Tripp warmly; "but I'm afraid I didn't
succeed very well with Robert. It seems to me the child's finer feelings
have been blunted someway. When I spoke seriously to him about his
unkindness to Carroll the other day, he made up a face at me. 'You can't
whip me,' he said, ''cause you aren't my mother.'

"'Indeed I could whip, or hurt you in some other way, if I chose,' I
told him, 'and if you were a stupid little donkey who wouldn't go, or a
dog who couldn't be made to obey, I should certainly feel like switching
you; but you are a boy, and you are fast growing to be a man. I am
afraid, though, that you are not growing to be a gentleman.'

"'I guess I'm a gentleman, too,' he said rudely. 'My grandfather's a
rich man, an' we're goin' to have all his money when he dies. We ain't
poor like you.'"

"Shocking!" exclaimed Elizabeth; "what did you say to the child?"

"I explained to him what a gentle-man really was; then I told him about
the knights of the Round Table. He is not really a bad child, Elizabeth;
but he will be, if---- I wonder if I might venture to talk plainly to
his mother?"

"You may talk and she will listen, quite without impatience,"
Elizabeth said, with a shrug of her shoulders. "But Marian is
somewhat--opinionated, to put it mildly, and she is very, very sure that
her own way is best. So I'm afraid it wouldn't do any good."

She smiled speculatively as she looked at her friend. It seemed to her
that Evelyn was looking particularly young and pretty. There was a faint
flush of colour in her pale cheeks and her eyes shone girlishly bright
under their curtain of thick brown lashes. A sudden thought crossed
Elizabeth's mind. And without pausing to think, she put it into words.

"Evelyn," she began, her own cheeks glowing, "I want you to stay with us
over night; I really can't let you go off so suddenly, without saying
good-bye to--to Sam, or--anybody," she finished lamely. "You must stay
to dinner, anyway; I insist upon that much, and I will send you to the
station in a cab."

Evelyn shook her head. "It is very good of you, Betty," she said; "but I
really must go this afternoon. Mother will expect me."

"Does--Mr. Hickey know you are going?" demanded Elizabeth, abandoning
her feeble efforts at finesse.

The faint colour in Evelyn's cheeks deepened to a painful scarlet. She
met Elizabeth's questioning gaze bravely.

"No--o," she hesitated; "but----"

She paused, apparently to straighten out with care the fingers of her
shabby little gloves; then she looked up, a spark of defiance in her
blue eyes.

"Elizabeth," she said, "I think I ought to tell you that Mr. Hickey has
asked me to marry him; but I----"

"Oh, Evelyn! How glad I am!"

"I refused him," said Miss Tripp concisely.

"Refused him! but why? Sam thinks him one of the finest men he knows,
kind, good as gold, and very successful in his profession. You would be
so comfortable, Evelyn, and all your problems solved."

Miss Tripp arose. She was looking both defiant and unhappy now, but
prettier withal than Elizabeth had ever seen her.

"I don't want to be _comfortable_, as you call it, Betty," she said
passionately. "I--I want--to be _loved_. If he had even pretended
to--like me, even a little. But I--I had told him all about my
perplexities, I'm sure I can't imagine why--except that I pined for
something--sympathy, I thought it was, and he--offered me--money. Think
of it, Elizabeth! And when I refused, he--offered to marry me. He said
he could make me--comfortable!"

Her voice choked a little over the last word. "Of course," she went on,
"I know I'm not young and pretty any more; but--but I--couldn't marry a
man who was just sorry for me, as one would be sorry for a forlorn, lost
ki-kitten!"

"He does love you, Evelyn; I'm sure he does," Elizabeth said
convincingly. "Only he--doesn't know how to say so. If I could only----"

Miss Tripp looked up out of the damp folds of her handkerchief.

"If you should repeat to Mr. Hickey anything I have told you in
confidence, Elizabeth, I think I should die of shame," she quavered.
"Promise me--promise me you won't speak of it to anyone!"

Elizabeth promised at once, with an inward reservation in favour of Sam,
who could, she was sure, bring order out of this sudden and unexpected
chaos in her friend's affairs.

"I am positive that you are mistaken, Evelyn," she repeated, as she
embraced and kissed her friend at parting. "I wish you would change your
mind."

But Evelyn shook her head with the gentle obstinacy which Elizabeth
remembered of old. "I seldom change my mind about anything," she said;
"and in this case I simply couldn't. Good-bye dear, dear Betty; and
thank you a thousand times for all your kindness to me."

She turned to wave a slim hand to Elizabeth, who stood watching her
departure with a curious mingling of exasperation and regret.

A whiff of familiar perfume greeted her upon re-entering the
sitting-room and her eyes fell at once upon Evelyn's muff, which she had
deposited upon the floor beside her chair and quite evidently forgotten.
It was a handsome muff of dark mink, a relic of Evelyn's more fortunate
days. Elizabeth stood caressing it absent-mindedly, wondering how she
could best restore it to its owner without vexatious delay, when her
eyes fell upon Carroll and Doris coming in at the front gate with joyous
hops, skips and jumps indicative of the rapture of release from school.

"Here, dears!" she exclaimed, "Aunty Evelyn has just gone, and she has
left her muff; take it and run after her; then come directly home. Your
lunch will be ready in fifteen minutes."




XX


All that Evelyn Tripp had said to Elizabeth was entirely true; her
feelings had been hurt--outraged, she again assured herself, as she
hurried away, her eyes blurred with tears of anger and self-pity. Yet
deep down in her heart she felt sure that George Hickey loved her for
herself alone, and that all was not over between them. She had refused
him, to be sure, and in no uncertain terms; but that he was not a man to
be daunted by difficulties, she remembered with a little thrill of
satisfaction. All had not been said when their interview was terminated
by the unlooked-for arrival of the Stanfords; and he had said at
parting, "I must see you again--soon. I wish to--explain. I will come
to-morrow."

He would come; she was sure of it, and as she pictured his vexed
astonishment at finding her already gone, her eyes filled with fresh
tears. "He doesn't even know my Dorchester address," she murmured with
inconsistent regret. She was so absorbed in her thoughts that she did
not hear a masterful step on the sidewalk behind her; but at the sound
of his voice she glanced up without the least surprise. It appeared to
Evelyn that Mr. Hickey's presence at that particular instant was in full
accord with the verities.

"I was afraid you might be leaving early," he said directly, his eyes
searching her face with an open anxiety that filled her with a warm
delight. "I--er--found that I could not apply myself to business as I
should this morning, so I thought best to--er--see you without delay."

Evelyn's head dropped; a faint smile flitted about her lips.

"Indeed, I am just leaving this afternoon," she said, in a voice that
trembled a little in spite of her efforts to preserve an easy society
manner.

"And you were going without--letting me know," said Mr. Hickey, in the
tone of one who derives an unpleasant deduction from an undeniable fact.
He looked down at her suddenly. "Did you, or did you not intend giving
me the chance to--er--continue our conversation of last evening?" he
asked with delightful sternness.

She was sure now that he loved her; but her day had been long in coming
and she could not resist the temptation to enjoy it slowly, lingeringly,
as one tastes an anticipated feast.

"I thought," she murmured indistinctly, "that there was nothing more
to--say." She was deliciously frightened by the look that came into his
deep-set eyes.

"I asked you to marry me," he said deliberately, "and you--refused. I
want to know your reasons. I must know them. I am not in the habit of
giving up what I want, easily," he went on, his brows meeting in a
short-sighted frown, which raised Evelyn to the seventh heaven of
anticipated bliss. "I've always gotten what I wanted--sooner or later. I
want--you, Evelyn, and--and it's getting late. I'm forty-two, and
you----"

She blushed resentfully, for at that moment she felt twenty, no older.
Nevertheless, something in her downcast face must have encouraged him.

"Won't you take pity on me, dear?" he entreated. "I'm old and ugly to
look at, I know; but I _want you_, Evelyn."

She would have answered him then; the words trembled upon her lips.

"Aunty Evelyn! Aunty Evelyn!"

The two shrill little voices upraised in urgent unison pierced the
confused maze of her thoughts. She looked around, not without a wilful
sense of relief to see the two older Brewster children running toward
her brandishing a muff, which she presently recognised as one of her own
cherished possessions, un-missed as yet since her brief visit with
Elizabeth.

"Mother found it on the floor after you'd gone, an' she said for us to
run after you an' give it to you," Carroll began, with a large sense of
his own importance. "Doris wanted to carry it; but I was 'fraid she'd
drop it in the wet. I didn't drop it, Aunty Evelyn; but Doris threw some
snow at me, an' it got on the muff, an' I stopped to brush it off. I
thought we'd never catch up."

Doris had snuggled her small person between Mr. Hickey and Miss Tripp,
where she appropriated a hand of each in a friendly and impartial way.

"I guess girls know how to carry muffs better'n boys," she observed
calmly. "Carroll was too fresh; that is why I threw snow at him."

"Why, Doris dear, where did you ever learn such an expression?" murmured
Miss Tripp, vaguely reproving.

Doris gazed up at her mentor with an expression of preternatural
intelligence.

"Why, don't you know," she explained; "folks is too fresh when they make
you mad, an' make you cry. Who made you cry, Aunty Evelyn? Did Mr.
Hickey?"

"I wish you'd find out for me, Doris," said that gentleman gloomily.
"I'd give anything to know."

Miss Tripp gazed about her with gentle distraction, as if in search of
an entirely suitable remark with which to continue the difficult
conversation. Finding no inspiration in the expanse of slushy street, or
in the dull houses which bordered it on either side, she turned bravely
to Mr. Hickey.

"I think," she said in a low voice, "that the children really ought to
go home to--to--their luncheon."

Her eyes (quite unknown to herself) held an appeal which filled him with
unreasoning satisfaction.

"You are entirely right," he agreed joyfully; "the children should go
home immediately. They must be in need of food. Go home, children, at
once. You are hungry--very hungry."

"Oh, no, we're not," warbled Doris. "An' we like to walk with you an'
Aunty Evelyn. Mother said our lunch wouldn't be ready for fifteen
minutes. We won't have to go home for quite a while yet."

At this Mr. Hickey laughed, more loudly than the humour of the situation
appeared to demand. "Very good," he said firmly; "that being the case,
I'll say at once what I had in mind without further delay; for I'm
anxious to let the whole world know that I love you, Evelyn, and I hope
you'll allow me to go on loving you as long as I live."

The events which followed immediately upon this bold statement Elizabeth
learned as a result of her somewhat bewildered questionings, when her
two children, breathless and excited from a competitive return, flung
their small persons upon her at their own door.

"Now you just let me tell, Carroll Brewster, 'cause I got here first;
Aunty Evelyn said----"

"We gave Aunty Evelyn her muff," said Carroll, taking unfair advantage
of Doris' breathless condition. "And what do you think, mother, Doris
said I was too fresh to Aunty Evelyn, and she said----"

"Aunty Evelyn cried when we gave her the muff, an' she said----"

"Aunty Evelyn didn't cry 'cause we gave her the muff," interpolated
Carroll, with superior sagacity. "She was cryin' to Mr. Hickey, an' he
said----"

"He said he'd give me most anythin'--a great big doll with real hair or
a gold ring, or anythin' at all if I'd find out why Aunty Evelyn was
cryin'."

"But, Doris dear, Mr. Hickey wasn't with Aunty Evelyn; was he?" asked
Elizabeth, a fine mingling of reproof and eager curiosity flushing her
young face.

"Mr. Hickey didn't say a big doll with real hair, or a gold ring,"
Carroll interrupted indignantly. "You just made up that part, Doris."

"I didn't make it up either; I thought it," retorted Doris. "He said
he'd give me anythin' at all, an' I guess a great big doll with real
hair is anythin'. So there!"

"I don't understand, children," murmured the smiling Elizabeth, who was
beginning to understand very well, indeed. "You should have come home at
once, instead of stopping to talk to Aunty Evelyn. Your luncheon is
waiting."

"That's what Aunty Evelyn said," put in Carroll reproachfully, "an' Mr.
Hickey said 'Go home at once, children; you're very hungry.' An' I was
going; but Doris, she wouldn't go. She----"

"I wasn't a bit hungry then; but I am now, an' I smell somethin' good,"
observed that young lady, sniffing delicately.

"She said she wasn't in any hurry, an' I guess Mr. Hickey didn't like
it. Anyway he laughed, an' he took right hold of Aunty Evelyn's hand,
an' she cried some more."

"She didn't cry 'cause he squeezed her hand. She said 'I thought you
didn't really like me.' An' Mr. Hickey----. Now don't int'rupt,
Carroll; it's rude to int'rupt; isn't it, mother? Mr. Hickey said 'Yes,
I do too!' Jus' like that he conterdicted."

"An' then Doris said, 'it's rude to conterdict,' right out to Mr. Hickey
she said. That was an awful imp'lite thing for Doris to say; wasn't it,
mother? I said it was."

"But Aunty Evelyn said _sometimes_ it wasn't rude to conterdict.
An'--'n' she said she was glad Mr. Hickey conterdicted; 'cause she was
'fraid he wasn't goin' to; an' then----"

"She told us to run along home an' tell our mother she was very much
mistaken this mornin'."

"No; she said to say our mother was perfec'ly right, an' she was----"

"Well, that's jus' exac'ly what I said. What did Aunty Evelyn mean,
mother? An' why did Mr. Hickey make her cry?"

Elizabeth wiped a laughing tear or two from her own eyes. "I'm glad
Aunty Evelyn found out that I was right," was all she said. "Now come,
children, and let mother wash your hands. Celia has baked a beautiful
gingerbread man for Carroll's lunch and a beautiful gingerbread lady
for Doris and a cunning little gingerbread baby for Baby Dick."

"Oh, goody! goody!" shouted the children in ecstatic chorus.

In a trice their singular encounter with Aunty Evelyn and Mr. Hickey was
forgotten in eager contemplation of the more obvious and immediate
future of the gingerbread man, the gingerbread lady and the gingerbread
child; each of whom, plump and shining, reposed in the middle of a pink
china plate, their black currant eyes widely opened upon destiny.




AFTERWORD


It will be easily perceived by the intelligent reader that there really
isn't any end to this story. The chronicler is forced to leave the
problems of the Brewster parents unsolved in many details, while the
Brewster children, in company with the present generation of young
Americans, are still growing up;--growing up, it is devoutly to be
hoped, into better men and women than their parents. Stronger
physically, more alert mentally, of clearer vision; better fitted to
carry the world's burdens and direct the world's activities. Unless the
Brewsters accomplish this much for their children they have failed in
the greatest thing given them to do; for it is not more wealth, better
houses, finer raiment that the world is crying out for, but better,
healthier and more inspired men and women. And, clearly, it rests with
the fathers and mothers as to whether their children shall reach this
higher level toward which humanity weakly struggles with tears and
groans. Is love and brotherhood to rule in a world wherein all the
finer qualities of mind and heart find room to grow and flourish? Or is
humanity to go on its old, old weary way, hating and being hated; the
strong trampling the weak under foot; the child often suffering from
ignorance and injustice--even in its own home; and growing up to carry
on the same false ideas.

There is much to be said on both sides of this question of child
government, and the writer of this little tale does not even pretend to
have said the last word. But let this much be remembered: "Spare the rod
and spoil the child," was spoken in the days when polygamy and
concubinage were the rule in the home. "Folly is bound up in the heart
of the child; but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him,"
was the dictum of an age whose customs would not be tolerated in these
days of higher civilisation and more illumined vision. The rack and the
thumb-screw, the gag, the branding-iron and the scourge have passed; we
shiver at the mere mention of the tortures inflicted upon human flesh in
those past ages of darkness; yet "the rod of correction" is still
tolerated--nay, even complacently advocated in our homes, though it has
been routed from our schools. Isn't it out of date? Doesn't it belong in
the museums with those ancient and rust-eaten instruments of torture?

Listen to this other saying, from a newer inspiration, a closer
fellowship with The Light of the World: "There is no fear in love; but
perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath punishment; and he that
feareth is not made perfect in love." And this, from the fountainhead of
all wisdom: "And He took a little child and set him by his side and said
unto them, 'Whosoever shall receive this little child in my name
receiveth me; and whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me;
_for he that is least among you all, the same is great_.'"

I submit this to you: Is it possible to conceive of Jesus Christ as
striking a little child?



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THOSE BREWSTER CHILDREN***


******* This file should be named 52302.txt or 52302.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/5/2/3/0/52302


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

